skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us what is a blog? blogging & how it works (simple guide) alex nerney updated: 3/16/20 • comments: 36 home » create and go blog » blogging basics » what is a blog? blogging & how it works (simple guide) disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin432 shares432 if you’re confused about what is a blog, how it works, and if this is something you would want to do – you’ve come to the right place! this breakdown is going to explain everything. two years ago, lauren and i were in the same place that many of you are probably in right now. we honestly didn’t know the difference between a blog and a website. it was all new and kind of confusing to us. we actually didn’t really identify with the term “bloggers” for the first several months. we just thought that we had a health and fitness website we were trying to make money from. despite our confusion, we were eager to get started blogging because we saw how much money other people were making online and how effective it was to grow a business. fast forward to today, lauren and i have built two six-figure blogs and make over $100,000 a month blogging! it’s a crazy but very true story, and many people now even call us “expert bloggers” and “professional bloggers.” i don’t know when that happened, but i do feel like we can give a very solid and tangible definition to the common questions surrounding what a blog really is: table of contents close open what is a blog? what does “blog” stand for? what is blogging? what is a blog used for? what is the difference between a blog and a website? what should i blog about? what makes a good blog? what kind of blogs are there? what kind of blog should i start? how do you make an income from a blog? how do i get started? what is a blog? the standard definition of a blog is something like this one from dictionary.com: “a website containing a writer’s or group of writers’ own experiences, observations, opinions, etc., and often having images and links to other websites.” yawn. so formal. so official. and so incredibly boring. let’s instead illustrate with an example: this is a blog. what you are reading right now is an article on a blog. it’s just written content (generally meant to instruct or be informational in nature) on a website. the blog itself is what holds the content in the post (what you’re reading) and in our case, and our blog is a part of our entire website. this is also why we refer to our website as a blog. for all of you preferred video learners out there, here is a video of this topic (plus some extra tips!) from our youtube channel below. what does “blog” stand for? what does blog mean? in computer terms, “blog” is the combination of two words – “web” and “log.” web + log = blog 🙂 what is blogging? again, dictionary.com would say, “to maintain or add new entries to a blog” very thrilling. the much more interesting truth is that blogging is an incredibly fun and mentally charging form of creative expression. it’s taking your unique thoughts and your unique writing style and mashing those two things together in the form of written expression. blog writing really can be introspective, fun, exciting, mind-numbing, emotional, relaxed, or whatever you decide for it to be. there is also no requirement on how often you update your content. you can blog once a week or you can blog once a year. it’s completely up to you. what is a blog used for? it’s up to you! blogs can be used for any or all of the following purposes: personal journals (hobby blogs) creative expression teaching and coaching others selling products promoting brands it can be whatever you want it to be. in our case, we use our blogs to teach others as well as to sell products to make a full-time income online. what is the difference between a blog and a website? i’m more of a visual learner myself so let’s show you some examples. the following are three types of websites and how they function with blogs: the website is a blog. the website has a blog. and the website is just a website. let’s dive into a little more detail on each one and explain what the differences are. the website is a blog the best example of a blog we can give is the website you are on right now, createandgo.com. pretty much our entire website is a blog. this is also how our first health and wellness blog worked as well: it is primarily a blog because it’s centered around updated content on the website. here are some other names you could classify our blogs as: blog website (because even if it is a blog, it’s is still technically a website) authority/niche website (because the content is centered around a specific topic, this is also acceptable. you might not have ever heard of this term, but it’s common in internet marketing speak.) other examples of websites in which the primary content is articles are huffington post and buzzfeed. while these are much bigger websites publishing lots of content and may refer to themselves as a website or publisher, they are still technically a blog since blogging is their primary content. in these cases, both terms are acceptable. the website has a blog i think this is why so many people get confused. in this example, the website has a blog it uses, but the primary content is not articles. this is the case for most websites as a blog is a good way to drive traffic to your blog and potential customers to a website. the email marketing service, convertkit, is a good example. you can see on the top menu that they have a link to their blog: the website has a blog with regularly updated posts and it’s an important part of their business, but the blog section is not the primary content or purpose of the website. the primary purpose is getting people started with their email marketing software. they sell software. in this case, the people at convertkit would likely refer to their site as… a website a software a business they would not refer to what they do as “blogging” or being “bloggers” even though they have do have a blog on their website. another example is wifitribe.co, which is the group of remote workers that we have traveled with in the past. they too have a blog, but the primary purpose of their website is to get digital nomads to go together on trips around the world – many of which we have been on! convertkit is mainly selling a service. they don’t consider themselves “bloggers.” remember, the primary purpose of the website is going to usually reflect what the creator calls the website. it is subjective in nature but is all about what the purpose of the website is. the website is just a website in this case, the website exists without a blog as a standalone site. an example would be canva.com. this is a standalone website with no blog that we use to create and edit images. more examples include websites generally for: apartment complexes local real estate brokers platforms like youtube and facebook any of the above websites could add a blog to their website, but right now they just have a website. alright, i hope that cleared some stuff up. next, i want to go over some other important questions you probably have if you are interested in learning about what is a blog and more about the basics of blogging. what should i blog about? what to blog about is going to depend on your own goals for your blog. contrary to popular belief, blogs are not just an online diary about your thoughts. if you want to make a business out of it, you need to run it like a business. remember that it can be whatever you want to make of it. you can blog about whatever your heart desires, including… company updates a product you liked a workout you used or recommend to your friends or use it as… a creative outlet to practice writing a way to meet others and connect basically, anything you can think of. be creative! here’s the rub though… not all articles are created equal and there are certain blog post ideas that do better than others. what makes a good blog? it’s the connection you create with your readers. the closer you can connect with and bond with those visiting your blog, the more powerful the blog will be and likely money you will make. a good blog is not necessarily a big blog with a large audience, more so it’s how many members of that audience truly connect with the writer/content. some small blogs make tons of cash because of the deep connection with their audience, while some huge blogs make nothing because they don’t know how to connect with readers. what kind of blogs are there? there are many different kinds but they usually fall into 4 categories: lifestyle/personal brand blog passion subject blog broad niche blog crash-test-dummy blog a lifestyle blog and a personal blog are generally the same thing. they leverage the personal brand of someone’s name and are usually more about that person’s lifestyle. many bloggers take this path and people have even gotten very famous from blogging. another kind of blog is microblogging where someone blogs in short note-style posts. this is usually done on a platform like instagram where you write longer captions (not recommended if you want to make serious dollars though). what kind of blog should i start? everyone’s personality and desires are different when it comes to blogging. that’s why we recommend everyone take our blogger personality quiz to help you determine this. it’s completely free and an awesome way to get started blogging! how do you make an income from a blog? you can make money in a variety of ways. some methods will earn you much more money and some will earn you money much faster. some of the very basic ways to make money with a blog include: putting ads on your blog (google adsense) recommending products in your articles (like amazon products) selling other people’s products (called affiliate marketing) selling your own digital products and services (higher return but more time investment) so, you can get paid by companies whose products you are recommending or directly by people who purchase your products. how do i get started? you can get one started in 30 minutes or less! if you’re ready to get rolling make sure to check out our post on how to start a blog (a step-by-step beginner’s guide). p.s. did this post on what is a blog help you? what is your blog going to be about? we would love to hear about it in the comments section below! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin432 shares432 about alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. read this next how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) open this window to get started with bluehost now.start with bluehost nowstart now are you looking for a simple, step-by-step guide to how to start a blog and actually make money from it!? our free guide on this page will show you how to create a blog that is beautiful and functional, all in an easy step-by-step […] keep reading > similar articles blogging basics how to come up with a great blog name in 30 minutes! how much does it really cost to start a blog? (2020 update) 10 popular and profitable blog niches that still work in 2020 how much do bloggers make? like, really? [2020 edition] see all blog posts 36 leave a reply 18 comment threads 18 thread replies 0 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 24 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest rakibul islam truly, highly informative. thank you, man. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago admin alex and lauren you’re welcome 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago guest roberto great information! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks, roberto! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest sherry thanks for the information, i’m genuinely interested to start my own blogging journey! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren awesome! have you signed up for our free 5-day blogging bootcamp yet? you can access the link from the home page 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest romenath thapa i liked so much your blog teaching idea… with your teaching idea, i like to start and today only understood what is blog and website as well. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago guest naomi thank you so much for this and for the quiz, it really opened my mind. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest bonnie thank you. this was helpful. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest deepak patre hi, alex & lauren! your post is really more informative and easier and it’s really helpful for me . thank you! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest francisco thanks! i’ve started with a blog, now i have changed to a website with blog. it’ll be easier to monetize this way at first for me. i’ll see later if i decide otherwise. nice blogs you have! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren thanks, francisco! congrats on getting started in your new direction! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest julia lansdell i am starting my blog, do you recommend blogger on google to start out with? i signed up for your 7 day free course… excited to get started.. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey julia, we always recommend bluehost and not free platforms. it is far easier to monetize your blog using bluehost over the various free platforms. you can read more in our article on blog hosting, titled “blog hosting review: which is the best blog hosting site for you?”. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest aaron have been considering blogging for a little while now, but still pretty apprehensive. found you guys today and already feel a little more confident about jumping in! thanks! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren that’s great, aaron! we were apprehensive too, but we found that we really loved it – well before we were having any success with it. that helped us to continue to push forward. good luck!! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest khadene when i finally got it in my head i wanted to start a blog i did a google search and came across you guys. i am happy i did and i am so thankful for all the information. it’s a lot, but i am ready to do what i really want to do! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren so happy that you found us and we could help!! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest paige thank you for the info as i am really wanting to start a new chapter in my life and something that will allow me to be creative, take with me when we move, and in hopes to make some money. i want to know if a ‘blog’ can have different topics…like have different tabs to go to such as food, health, everyday stuff, etc… or do i need to really focus on one topic and go with that? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey paige, absolutely! blogs with topics that are a little unrelated are often referred to ‘lifestyle’ blogs. you’ll likely find that if you’re blogging about 4-5 topics, 1-2 will become the most popular with your audience and are where you want to focus your monetization efforts. hope that helps! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest angie hardman this just helped me make a decision i was really struggling with. i had way too many ideas all jumbled together that could be put into 4-5 topic areas. now to see where my audience will lead. ? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest karlene wiggins this was very informative and inspiring. i’m a stay home mom, my husband is in corporate banking however we would really love to start a successful blog. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren welcome, karlene! glad to have you here! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest kaylee urquidez hi alex & lauren! thanks for all the info in this post as well as all of your other posts! i’m 20 a military wife and new mama of our lil 7 weeks old baby girl. i’ve been thinking about starting a blog for awhile now as well as a youtube channel and really appreciate you guys being open and honest about your experiences and what you have learned. one of the reasons i haven’t started my own blog yet is because i have a lot of interests and ideas about what i’d love to write about but cant quite… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren kaylee, i would definitely go with whatever feels right to you. pairing a youtube channel with your blog is a great way to go. it has helped us grow our blog tremendously. definitely start the yt channel first if you’re more comfortable with that and it will help you find your direction! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest lesa hi alex & lauren! i am a pastor’s wife, we have one daughter & two grand’s! i have thought allot about starting my very own blog. i have many people that i would love to reach out too as well as anyone that is going through addiction problems! that subject (addiction) is very close to my heart because of several family member’s that are struggling daily. i also have started flipping and or repurposing item’s for resale. but, i would also love to make some extra money! can you help and point me in the right direction? thank you &… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey, lesa! sometimes what helps is to do a google or pinterest search on the topics that you want to discuss to see what other blogs and websites are doing and how they are making their money. this will give you ideas on how you might monetize your own! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest rochelle daniel i encourage you to start a blog. if your heart is leading you towards that subject do it. learn as much as you can about the legal stuff because of the theme to protect you and others. remember jona you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest ben hey guys! i just wanted to ask, what does it take to make a little money from blogging? what kind of effort as a beginner? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey, ben. it still requires a great deal of effort. i’m not going to say that it’s “easy.” it took us about 6 months, and we create courses designed to help you get there much faster (we’re currently working on a course to teach people how to go from $0 to making their first $1,000 blogging). i can’t tell you the number of hours or how much effort it takes, because this varies on so many different factors. if you take the right steps and put it in a lot of time and effort, you should be able to turn… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest amit kharbade yes, i agreed with the alex, we can not say how much time require to get success in blogging or make your blog stable. i have been blogging since 2012 but still i am not getting success. its depends on the capabilities and the hard work. if you work hard on your blog then you will defiantly get success. in my case i hardly get time to work on my blog because of which i am not getting what i want. i just work 3-4 hrs in a week(i have full time job already). blogging is my passion if you… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest gail | the undesked great post. there’s so much info out there, the lines between website and blog tend to get muddled. i just started a career advice blog for millennials and love having your site as a resource. thanks! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thanks, gail!! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest carol lewis thanks for the info! you have a very kind, open, informative and encouraging way of writing. i will let you know when i get mine going. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thank you, carol!! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents what is a blog? what does “blog” stand for? what is blogging? what is a blog used for? what is the difference between a blog and a website? what should i blog about? what makes a good blog? what kind of blogs are there? what kind of blog should i start? how do you make an income from a blog? how do i get started? footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz