0 letter to a stranger behind the feature essays about donate jobs back letter to a stranger images of america back no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say back letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives letter to a stranger letter to a stranger images of america behind the feature essays no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say about letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives donatejobs the detour is the story 0 what i didn't say what did your favorite author leave out of their book? what would they say if they could return to its pages? featured los angeles, california cara danielle brown about sex, sovereignty, and steampunk los angeles, california cara danielle brown “any big fears or insecurities?” “you’re gonna ask me that before i have sex?!” she joked. i agree that, yes, the timing was shit and we could totally skip it. but she graciously answered, “failure. and not being accepted. also drowning. and wet socks, i don’t know why.” los angeles, california cara danielle brown toulouse, france jon arlan about yannis, the champion of champignons toulouse, france jon arlan i had come to learn le français. toulouse, france jon arlan kings country, california maggie milstein about the first time i met charles manson kings country, california maggie milstein he still had an enviable crop of hair and beard, now gray and relatively kempt, and though his skin was doughy and shadow-less his eyes were as soft and expressive as a pig's. as he sat at a visitation table in clean blue chambray, he looked less like america's most dangerous criminal and more like the original maytag man, waiting fist-to-cheek. kings country, california maggie milstein london, england chaya bhuvaneswar about portobello road london, england chaya bhuvaneswar i walk down portobello road, past the bright blue, red, and yellow facades of buildings that i have no desire to enter, past glossy, small boutiques filled with narrow-hipped women…i’m wearing clean scrubs, clogs. a foreigner. refugee from a hospital, wanting to preserve my other life, the person i was before the sacrifices of this long training. london, england chaya bhuvaneswar ferrara, italy stacy mattingly about translating giorgio bassani's novel of ferrara ferrara, italy stacy mattingly there’s also a strange phenomenon many people have noted, and the motive for retranslating any work, and that is that the translation dates while the original doesn’t. ferrara, italy stacy mattingly los angeles off assignment about joy press's hollywood los angeles off assignment the whole history of television is executives saying, "no, that female character is too unlikeable, that female character is too obnoxious, that female character no one’s going to relate to. that female character is not sexy enough, is too chubby, is too... los angeles off assignment the other side of paradise julia cooke about cuba the other side of paradise julia cooke when she tasted a cuban banana, her eyes widened, her mouth puckered, she cocked her head and looked at the bowl, the tree, my face, back to the bowl and to the banana inside of it. the other side of paradise julia cooke 100 places in france every woman should go marcia desanctis about honfleur 100 places in france every woman should go marcia desanctis but what brought me low that day was not as simple as feeling my age, and the long stretch of years since i’d fallen for the place—it was returning in a way that was anything but picturesque. 100 places in france every woman should go marcia desanctis travels in a thin country sara wheeler about chile travels in a thin country sara wheeler i fell in love with the thin country, but what i didn’t say is that i also fell in love with a chilean. travels in a thin country sara wheeler read more listen on soundcloud get the "dear stranger" newsletter. each week, a real letter in your inbox. email address write me thank you! "sometimes they unfurl in a perfect bubble, which pops, when the clock stops ticking, without any anguish at all." —sara wheeler © off assignment / offassignment@gmail.com