home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership what’s missing from your goal achievement toolbox? michael and megan 00:28:45 download transcript high achievers thrive on goal setting. so you probably get revved up at the start of a new year or quarter. but the busyness of daily life can drain that enthusiasm quickly. you’re using all the tools you have to keep yourself focused and motivated. but sometimes, it just doesn’t seem to be enough. what’s the secret to staying focused and motivated all year long? your problem isn’t a lack of discipline. it may simply be a lack of community. community support is the secret weapon of the highest achievers. by sharing your goals with others, you gain a support community, affirmation, and valuable insights. there’s no need to struggle alone! in this episode, we’ll show you the amazing value of having a community of like-minded goal setters around you. try this, and you’ll wind up achieving more goals than ever before. here’s a peek of this episode. why you need support more than you need accountability. [2:40] how we discovered the value of being in a support community. [3:58] why accountability often backfires. [5:48] the difference between internal and external motivation. [6:53] how group support keeps you motivated when goal achievement is difficult. [8:10] how negative input inhibits your achievement, and how to counteract it. [9:41] why pursuing an achievement with others makes you better. [12:24] why you need a place to celebrate your wins. [13:56] why it is essential to have a sense of progress toward your biggest goals. [15:14] how giving affirmation to others benefits your momentum. [17:20] how we leverage the power of affirmation to build momentum in our company. [18:21] the easiest way to get advice on pursuing a tough goal. [20:16] the antidote to getting stuck on a meaningful goal. [21:13] the one thing you should never do in offering feedback on goal progress. [23:48] if you’re serious about getting into a goal support community, check out compass: your full focus guide. it’s like an insurance plan for your goals! connect with us on instagram we’d love to see you on instagram. both of us post stories nearly every day, and we love to read your comments! it’s also a great place to keep up on new products, our latest thinking on goal achievement, and even personal updates. check us out @michaelhyatt and @meganhyattmiller. and please share this episode in your instagram feed (or other favorite channel). help your friends discover this podcast so they can benefit too! use the hashtag #leadtowin. resources from this episode compass: your full focus guide resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe compass: your full focus guide posted on tuesday, january 7, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed