home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library latest articles tips on getting pregnant prevnext what you should know before you start your fertility treatment steps leyla preston sun 30th jun 2019 13shares share tweet pin if you have difficulties conceiving, and you have been trying for at least six months to get pregnant, then now may be the time to consider fertility treatment steps. trying for a baby can be a challenging time, especially if you have been dealing with infertility problems that are inhibiting your chances of getting pregnant. so it is essential that you do your research and know what to expect before embarking upon the next stage of fertility treatment. many couples try to conceive naturally for months or even years before they seek alternative options, by which point they plan and schedule their sex around cycles and ovulation. if you are considering getting in touch with a fertility doctor so that you can discuss fertility treatment options, then it is important to know what to expect. for many couples, having difficulties conceiving can cause feelings of loss and loneliness, and with infertility still being very much a taboo subject, many suffer alone in this emotional experience. remember that you are not alone (1 in 6 couples in the uk suffer from infertility), so it is ok to talk to your friends and family about your fertility issues, or obtain infertility support. you may be surprised that many people in your life can relate to your situation. another couple’s journey through infertility may be different, but below is what you should know before you start your fertility treatment steps. table of contents both man and woman will need to be investigated fertility treatment can consume your life there are a range of fertility options available look at your lifestyle unsuccessful treatment doesn’t mean there is anything wrong with you both man and woman will need to be investigated male factor infertility can account for 37% of cases, as opposed to 31% for women, so it is crucial that you don’t try and blame yourself or your partner for the fertility issues you are experiencing at the moment. while these problems may be caused by one individual, it can sometimes be a combination of reasons that have led to you both being unable to naturally conceive together. placing the blame on your partner may start to erode at your relationship, so don’t forget that you’re a team and that you’re in it together. think of fertility as a journey that you both need to take to get your desired baby. if you decide to go ahead with fertility treatment, then both you and your partner will need to have your fertility investigated, as this will help the fertility specialist provide you with the best treatment plan going forward. fertility treatment can consume your life when you are trying for a baby, you may find that your entire life is scheduled around cycles, ovulation, periods, and fertility appointments. while it is natural for your focus to be on your fertility treatment and trying to keep on top of all the doctor’s appointments, try not to let fertility treatment control your life. of course, it can be challenging to focus on anything else during this time, so find a way for you and your partner to relax and de-stress. this may include going for a long walk, taking a weekend away somewhere remote, or getting into yoga. stress is a significant factor of inhibiting ovulation, which can reduce your chances of conceiving. so finding ways to reduce the stress in your life can increase your chances of conceiving. there are a range of fertility options available there are many different options available to you when it comes to fertility treatment, and your fertility specialist will be able to advise you on the best possible treatments for your fertility journey. when people think about fertility treatment, they often assume that the ivf process is the only option available. however, you may be eligible for other treatments, like egg donation, hormone therapy or intrauterine insemination treatment (iui). iui is where sperm is placed inside the uterus in the hope of increasing the number of sperms that make it into the fallopian tubes to achieve fertilisation. iui fertility treatment is available in the uk at fertility specialist clinics such as king’s fertility, which has been helping couples conceive since 1983. your medical professional will conduct a fertility test to determine which fertility treatment is right for you. look at your lifestyle how you live your life can have a significant impact on your fertility. while fixing your lifestyle may not be a guaranteed fix, achieving a healthier lifestyle can improve your chances of getting pregnant. if you are overweight, then you should consider reducing your bmi through a balanced diet and regular exercise. not only will this improve your overall health, and possibly increase your fertility, it will also make you feel less stressed, which helps to increase your chances of getting pregnant. adopt fertility boosting foods in your diet like folic acid, calcium, whole grains and zinc and make sure your man is ingesting these vital food groups too! unsuccessful treatment doesn’t mean there is anything wrong with you fertility treatment isn’t for everyone, and there is not always a guaranteed chance of success. so, if the range of options available to you don’t work, then this doesn’t mean that there is anything wrong with you or your partner. sometimes there is nothing that can be done about infertility, and there is no real explanation for it. even though it can be tough to hear that you won’t be able to conceive, it is important not to feel at fault. think about considering other options like adoption or fostering as there are lots of children out there who are looking for mothers (and fathers) like you to give them a happy home. undergoing fertility treatment is a demanding process, so take plenty of time to consider your next steps with your partner, so you are both aware of what to expect throughout the journey. and, remember, if treatment doesn’t work, don’t look to blame each other, but work together as a team. keep check of your diet and lifestyle and adopt healthy choices to increase your chances of getting pregnant *collaborative feature post – check our ad policy for more information* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:fertilityfertility journeyfertility treatmentinfertilitypreconception related posts top five european countries for egg dona... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... introduction – journey to getting ... why people are seeking fertility treatme... the process of egg donation for in vitro... help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... 3 ways a healthy heart improves fertilit... have multiple babies of the same gender?... taking charge of your fertility with a h... how to become an egg donor for infertile... the rewards of egg donation: giving the ... women have an equal role in gender selec... all i ever wanted was to be a mum about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 13shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok