barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up answers what causes eye boogers in dogs? share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest alvina brown writer shares share tweet pin have you ever wiped something gunky out of your dog’s eye and wondered whether or not it was supposed to be there? you’re not alone. what are they, exactly? well, doggie eye boogers are just eye discharge, and it’s very common in dogs. the main causes of dog eye boogers are: 1. allergies/daily environmental irritants 2. conjunctivitis (yep, dogs can get it too) 3. epiphora (“dog tears”) 4. keratoconjunctivits sicca (kcs) a.k.a. “dry eye” 5. glaucoma what exactly is an eye booger though? most dogs experience eye discharge because of dirt or dust getting into their eye, which is normal. throughout the day, dogs accumulate debris in their eyes. their body’s natural response is to clean it out. each time your pup blinks, tears are released to provide protection and get rid of any irritants (like a piece of fur). so trust me, dog boogers can be totally normal. some breeds tend to have more discharge than others, and it’s not always a major medical problem. many dogs suffer from allergies and like people, it can cause an increase in eye discharge and redness. what isn’t normal is when yellowish discharge starts to form or you notice physical changes to the eye itself – whether it’s starting to cloud, bulge or push itself back into the skull. below are more detailed explanations about eye booger causes. 1. allergies like humans, dogs experience everyday things like grass, pollen, and dust that their bodies may think are dangerous, leading to a physical reaction, like eye discharge. even though the dust at the dog park is okay, for your pup it may be a problem causing allergen when it’s inhaled, ingested or comes in contact with the dog’s skin. breeds particularly prone to allergies are: terriers, setters, retrievers, and dogs with flat faces like bulldogs, pugs and boston terriers. dogs are allergic to numerous things. common symptoms of dogs experiencing allergies are: itchy, runny eyes (eye discharge) red or irritated skin excessive scratching pawing at their eye in order to treat it, ask your vet. additionally, flushing the eye out with over the counter sterile eyewash can also provide some relief. 2. conjunctivitis (aka pink eye) if you notice your dog has clear or pus-like eye boogers, and/or excessive redness in and around the eye, get it checked out by your vet. why? it could be conjunctivitis. conjunctivitis (bacterial or viral pink eye) is an inflammation of the conjunctiva. what’s that? the conjunctiva is the thin clear tissue that lies over the white part of the eye and lines the inside of the eyelid. watch for red eyes, inflammation, pawing at the eyes, squinting or crusty eyes that can indicate your dog has contracted this condition. also, just so you know, it is transmittable to humans, so if you think your dog has this, wash your hands after handling them. 3. epiphora be on the lookout for excessively teary eyes, which is known as epiphora. epiphora means the eyes overflow with tears. signs of epiphora are: excess wetness around the eyes, brown staining underneath the eyes, a smelly odor, and/or skin irritation. the condition tends to be more noticeable in breeds with lighter colored fur. but if you wipe your dark colored pup’s eye and the discharge is brown, keep an eye on it and schedule an appointment with your vet. 4. keratoconjunctivits sicca (kcs) next up on the eye discharge list is keratoconjunctivitis sicca (kcs), also known as dry eye (the inability to produce enough tears). dry eye happens when the tear gland gets infected or experiences trauma. dry eye symptoms are: yellowish discharge, inflammation around the eye, excessive blinking and/or swelling of the eyelids. when experiencing this condition, your dog’s cornea is at great risk which can lead to more eye infections and/or corneal damage. if you notice any of these symptoms, make an appointment with your vet, as kcs can cause loss of vision. 5. glaucoma glaucoma occurs when pressure is put on the eye, causing inadequate drainage of ocular fluid. some breeds like poodles, chow chows, and cocker spaniels are more predisposed to glaucoma than others. it’s also common in senior dogs. there are two types of glaucoma in dogs – primary and secondary. primary glaucoma is when the eye is unable to drain, causing fluid to get backed up in the eye. secondary glaucoma is when the eye is impacted by trauma (such as inflammation or cancer), which physically blocks drainage. with glaucoma, be on the lookout for excessive blinking, eye bulging, high pressure on the eye, clouded eyes, dilated pupils and/or vision loss. get your pup to the vet as soon as possible and have the ocular pressures checked to determine further treatment. how can i help my dog with their eye boogers? to help your canine companion with drainage, keep the hair around their eyes trimmed. if you have a long-haired dog or they have pesky hairs around their eyes, ask your groomer to trim the area. use caution with things that could irritate your dog’s eyes like shampoo, flea medication and dust. for dog tears, you can use specific dog eye wipes that are commonly sold in pet stores (you can also use hypoallergenic, fragrance-free baby wipes which tend to be cheaper). after the dog park, dampen a towel to clear any type of debris that might be there. finally, be on the lookout if you notice anything irritating your pup. you know your dog best, so if you feel their eye boogers are goopier, gloopier, or just plain grosser than normal, get them checked by the vet. better safe than sorry! for more, check out these articles! 5 signs your dog’s eye boogers are caused by something dangerous recall alert: this everyday household ingredient could make you or your dog very sick6 things you can learn about your dog’s health just by looking into their eyeswhy does my dog pee on my bed?my dog’s nose is always dripping. is something wrong? comments poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up alvina brown writer what are the symptoms of mange in dogs? what are the dogs that bark the most? 7 dog breeds with the worst teeth 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go