menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: a man's life, on manhood brett • april 24, 2016 last updated: september 10, 2018 how to really be alpha like the wolf scroll through some young guy’s tumblr or instagram feed and you’re bound to find a picture of a menacing-looking wolf with blood around its chops or a lone wolf howling at the moon. superimposed on this image is invariably a quote in big bold lettering — some kind of edgy, muscular platitude about ignoring your haters, striking out on your own, and dominating everyone in sight. you know, being a straight up alpha wolf. the idea of there being alpha (and beta) wolves originated from rudolph schenkel of the university of basel in switzerland, who studied a pack of wolves living at a zoo in the 1940s. schenkel observed that the wolves competed for status within their own sex, and that from these rivalries emerged a kind of “alpha pair” — a “lead wolf” that was the top male dog, and a “bitch” that was the top female dog. then in 1970, american scientist l. david mech wrote a book called the wolf, which expanded on schenkel’s research and popularized the idea of alpha and beta wolves and the leader/subordinate social dynamic of wolf packs. both researchers described this dynamic as a competition for rank, with alphas being those who were domineering, aggressive, and violent, and used these qualities to fight off rivals to become the supreme leader of the pack. popular culture soon took this conception of the alpha wolf, along with the whole alpha vs beta distinction, and applied it to humans — especially men. hence, the idea that to be an alpha male, you’ve got to take no prisoners, f*** s*** up each and every day, take what’s yours, and never say sorry. there’s just one problem with this idea. the research it’s based on turned out to be hugely flawed. below, we’ll explore the myth and reality of the alpha wolf. as we’ll see, looking to wolves for inspiration for human conduct can actually be useful and inspiring, but only if you’ve got a correct conception for what that behavior consists of. here’s what it really means to be alpha like the wolf. the myth and reality of the alpha wolf for most of the 20th century, researchers believed that gray wolf packs formed each winter among independent and unrelated wolves that lived near each other. they had reached this conclusion from observing groups of wolves that had been taken from various zoos and thrown together in captivity. under these circumstances, researchers observed that wolves would organize the pack hierarchy based on physical aggression and dominance. the alpha male wolf, indeed, was the wolf that kicked ass and took names. but then some researchers decided they should actually try to observe how pack formation happens in the wild. based on their studies on confined wolves, they thought they were going to see this: but were instead surprised to see this: instead of forming packs of unrelated individuals, in which alphas compete to rise to the top, researchers discovered that wild wolf packs actually consist of little nuclear wolf families. wolves are in fact a generally monogamous species, in which males and females pair off and mate for life. together they form a pack that typically consists of 5-11 members — the mate pair plus their children, who stay with the pack until they’re about a year old, and then go off to secure their own mates and form their own packs. the mate pair shares in the responsibility of leading their family and tending to their pups. in 21st century human terminology, they “co-parent.” and by virtue of being parents, and leading their “subordinate” children, the mates represent a pair of “alphas.” the alpha male, or papa wolf, sits at the top of the male hierarchy in the family and the alpha female, or mamma wolf, sits atop the female hierarchy in the family. in other words, male alpha wolves don’t gain their status through aggression and the dominance of other males, but because the other wolves in the pack are his mate and kiddos. he’s the pack patriarch. the pater familias. dear old dad. and like any good family man, a male alpha wolf protects his family and treats them with kindness, generosity, and love. after observing gray wolves in yellowstone for more than twenty years, wolf researcher richard mcintyre has rarely seen an alpha male wolf act aggressively towards his own pack. instead, an alpha dad sticks around until his pups are fully matured. he hunts alone or with his mate and children to provide food for the family (and sometimes waits for them to get their fill before he digs in himself), roughhouses with his pups (and gets a kick out of letting them win), and even goes out of his way to tend to the runts of his pack. this isn’t to say male alpha wolves are all cuddles and kisses. they’re of course fierce predators, and can take down large prey like moose and bison. and when his family is threatened by outside enemies and competitors, the alpha male will fiercely defend it — sometimes sacrificing his own life to save his mate and pups. this also isn’t to say male wolves don’t sometimes engage in displays of social dominance. mature male wolves do have dominance encounters with other male wolves – fathers will stand up to a stranger alpha, or sometimes show their own kids who’s boss, and an older wolf brother will demonstrate his superiority to his little wolf bro. so an alpha wolf can indeed be violent and assertive when the situation calls for it. yet for the most part, he leads not with noisy brashness and teeth-bared aggression, but steady strength, mettle, and heart; as mcintyre told another wolf researcher: “the main characteristic of an alpha male wolf is a quiet confidence, quiet self-assurance. you know what you need to do; you know what’s best for your pack. you lead by example. you’re very comfortable with that. you have a calming effect.” after learning how wolves actually form packs, researchers like l. david mech retracted their original theory of alpha wolves and now eschew terms like “alpha male” or “alpha female” altogether when describing wolf hierarchy, instead preferring to classify the leader wolves as “breeding males” and “breeding females.” unfortunately, the old conception has stuck around, and many men today have a mistaken notion of what it means to harness your inner alpha wolf. the reality of being an alpha is truly much more multi-faceted, and even more inspiring. making the wolf your totem animal of manhood i love the idea of animal totems, or at least finding inspiration from animals on how a man should live his life. animals can serve as powerful symbols to us humans. the symbols become all the more powerful and meaningful when we have a correct understanding of how the animal actually behaves. the gray wolf’s proclivity to roam and its prowess as a predator has for thousands of years made it a powerful symbol of the warrior, and of the freedom, wildness, and ferocity of masculinity. but that’s just one side of the wolf, and one side of what it means to be a man. yes, alpha male wolves are wild, aggressive, and savage. but they’re also protective, nurturing, and tender. so if you want to truly become alpha like a wolf, you’ll need to do more than become a beast in the gym, and strive to overcome your competitors. you’ll also need to become a committed and dedicated family man — a loving and protective father. while i’ve always loved wolves and their wildness, after learning more about the nuances of their social dynamics, i’ve fallen in love with them even more. the wolf is a nearly perfect symbol of the ideal of masculinity that i’m trying to get across here at art of manliness. like alpha wolves, i want to see men who tackle life’s adventure with their mates by their side, and lead their families with heart and strength. i want to see men who have the ability to marshal the hard tactical virtues of masculinity when needed against external threats, but temper that ferocity with softer virtues like compassion and gentleness, particularly towards those they love. in short, the male alpha wolf is the totem animal of the gentleman barbarian. so by all means, continue sharing your savage wolf memes on instagram and tumblr. wolves are awesome. but know that gray wolves howl to assemble their mate and pups before and after a hunt, to warn them of danger, and to locate each other during a storm, when traversing unfamiliar territory, or when separated over a great distance. it’s the call not of the angry, antisocial lone wolf, but of a father who’s leading, guiding, and lovingly gathering his pack. related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// sunday firesides: the saving power of daily rituals 21 epigrams every man should live by podcast #594: how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 sunday firesides: build your life upon multiple pillars of support view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy