start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search what book do i read next – book generator what book should i read next generator very often book lovers go through a dilemma of which book to read next. this generator helps you by suggesting a good book to read. into the wild generate a different book good reads: rated - 3.97/5 time to read: 7 hours, 207 pages in april, 1992, a young man from a well-to-do family hitchhiked to alaska and walked alone into the wilderness north of mt. mckinley. his name was christopher johnson mccandless. he had given $25,000 in savings to charity, abandoned his car and most of his possessions, burned all the cash in his wallet, and invented a new life for himself. four months later, a party of moose hunters found his decomposed body. how mccandless came to die is the unforgettable story of into the wild. when mccandless's innocent mistakes turn out to be irreversible and fatal, he becomes the stuff of tabloid headlines and is dismissed for his naiveté, pretensions, and hubris. he is said to have had a death wish but wanting to die is a very different thing from being compelled to look over the edge. krakauer brings mccandless's uncompromising pilgrimage out of the shadows, and the peril, adversity , and renunciation sought by this enigmatic young man are illuminated with a rare understanding--and not an ounce of sentimentality. mesmerizing, heartbreaking, into the wild is a tour de force. the power and luminosity of jon krakauer's stoytelling blaze through every page. buy on amazon.com buy on amazon india buy on amazon uk if you think your friend will like this book, do let him/her know. generate a random book personal development & self help business and economics non fiction science entrepreneurship psychology biographies spirituality novels uncheck/check all faqs on what book should i read next generator what is this what book do i read next generator? every book lover goes through the dilemma of which book to read next. sometimes you would go through amazon and goodreads to check a book in the category you love. you might perform random searches, glance through books similar to a book, look up kindle unlimited books, pick some books with good ratings and reviews and whatnot. you end up confused and frustrated many a time. this generator solves the problem for all book lovers by picking a random book that is known to be good based on ratings and reviews. just refresh the page and you will get a new book every time. how do i find a new book to read in a category? on this page, you have a section called - generate a random book. you can pick one or more categories of your liking and you will get recommendations only from those categories. what if i do not like the book suggested? just refresh the page or filter by the category in the section - generate a random book. how do you decide which books to recommend? the books are handpicked based on what other users are saying about it on various platforms like amazon and good reads. you can be sure that any book recommended has been liked by many other book lovers. but again, not everyone has the same taste so you might not like every single one. in the future, the recommendations will be based on your taste in books. are new books added to the list? new books are added to the list every week. by the time you read the book suggested by the what book should i read next generator, you will already have new suggestions waiting for you. send me book recommendations on my mailbox your name your email 31shares why was the tool what book do i read next generator created? here is the story behind why i created this book generator. i am an avid book reader who reads over 50 books a year. i have many friends who want to cultivate a habit of reading. they come to me asking, “what book do i read next?” i would continue with a follow-up question asking, “what type of book would you like to read?” some would say a novel, some wanted to read a self-help book, some wanted to learn entrepreneurship and what not. i would then suggest then what book to read next based on my previous reading. eventually, i thought since many people have this problem, why not build a tool to recommend the book to read next. i now make it a practice to collate data of various books that provide value and update the list frequently. i ensure that the books recommended provide good value for the time spent reading. not every book recommended by the tool might wow you. but i am sure, you will not feel that you picked a useless book. each book will provide some value for the time you spent. if you are not a book lover, read the article on the unknown importance of reading books. happy reading! i hope this solves your confusion about what book should you read next once and for all. my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 31shares top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?