australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video impact 03/20/2020 11:21 edt | updated 03/20/2020 11:22 edt what the world's happiest country can teach us about surviving the coronavirus crisis in order to persevere through a pandemic, it's all about trust and supporting one another. by laura paddison, huffpost us the timing of the annual world happiness report may seem unfortunate ― it launched today, as the world grapples with how to react to the coronavirus pandemic without social and economic meltdown. but the report authors point to vital lessons that countries with high levels of well-being can teach us about how to survive the coronavirus crisis. for the third year in a row, finland has been named the happiest country in the world. other nordic countries dominate, with denmark, iceland, norway and sweden all making the top 10. the secret to their success? “they are all very high trust societies,” john helliwell, professor emeritus of economics at the university of british columbia, and one of the report’s authors, told huffpost. “any individual who feels that sense of belonging and high trust, which is more common in the nordic countries than elsewhere, is much more sheltered against adversity of many types,” he said. the world happiness report, now in its eighth iteration, ranks the happiness of 156 countries by how happy their citizens perceive themselves to be and is based on data from gallup world poll studies. “the world happiness report has proven to be an indispensable tool for policymakers looking to better understand what makes people happy and thereby to promote the wellbeing of their citizenry,” said economist and report co-author jeffrey sachs in a statement about the report. “time and again we see the reasons for well-being include good social support networks, social trust, honest governments, safe environments, and healthy lives.” jonathan perugia/in pictures via getty images mutual aid and other community support groups have grown significantly in london over the last few days as people volunteer to help their neighbors who are vulnerable or self isolating with things like shopping, getting prescriptions and providing meals. this year, the focus is on “happiness in our environment,” including the social environment ― meaning our communities and our bonds with friends and families. this is especially relevant for us now, faced with covid-19, said helliwell. “this pandemic is a crisis of a sort that’s been witnessed in smaller forms recently enough that we know quite a lot about what makes for more resilient responses.” he pointed to studies done in the wake of the 2011 fukushima nuclear disaster in japan and other natural disasters, which show that communities that are strong to start with have a better and more coordinated response and emerge from the crisis more resilient. there may be lessons for countries like the united states here, which placed 18th (one place up from last year, but still a long way from 2011 when it placed 11th). despite its high gdp, happiness in america is very unequal, the report finds, connecting this with a wide gap between rich and poor, and a lack of welfare services and social support for low-income people. the nordic countries, on the other hand, are famed for their strong societies. “there’s more social trust and capital, more charity, more volunteering and more donations, more pro-social behavior in these kinds of societies that do well,” said jan-emmanuel de neve, professor of economics at the university of oxford and another report author. societies which are riven with division, polarization and mistrust, on the other hand, fare badly in the face of huge disruptions. while the u.s. has seen heartwarming examples of community action and solidarity lately, there are also high levels of mistrust, food hoarding﻿ and fear. and this impacts how we deal with the coronavirus. clive brunskill/getty images after spates of panic-buying cleared supermarket shelves of items like toilet paper and cleaning products, stores across the u.k. have introduced limits on purchases during the covid-19 pandemic. some have also created special time slots for the elderly and other shoppers vulnerable to the new coronavirus. de neve believes the coronavirus crisis will unfold in three parts. first health (dealing with the health impacts and attempts to “flatten the curve,” or slow the rise of new cases so as not to overwhelm the health care system), then economic (as job losses come and incomes are squeezed). the third part, he said, is well-being, how we keep our mental health intact when we are isolated. “what you’ll find in that third phase will be the importance and the strength of communities,” de neve said. “do you have friends to rely on? do you have family in the first place? do you live in a community that reaches out to another and helps each other?” all the well-being science, he said, predicts that communities that are more resilient to start with will cope much better and that people in stronger communities are more likely to recover faster when they are sick. on the other hand, said helliwell, “some societies are so concentrated on their differences and their anger with each other, that they end up blaming other people for the natural disaster, and not cooperating and finding the best ways of dealing with it.” one point raised by the report authors is the role social media will play in shoring up these social connections in a time of social distancing. this may seem counterintuitive given social media’s well-documented role in sowing division and mistrust. last year, the report found social media was having a negative impact on happiness, especially for young people and women. girls who spent five or more hours a day on social media, for example, were found to be three times more likely to be depressed than non-users. but during a lockdown, social media could, said van neve, “come into its own and be a force for good ... allowing and providing essentially a vaccine against loneliness.” what the report authors all agreed on is the need to foster a deep sense of trust in society, however that manifests itself as the public health crisis rolls on. “what the report is essentially telling us,” helliwell said, “is that this human need and capacity for looking out for each other, trusting each other, and looking after each other, is uniquely important.” and as the search for a vaccine against the virus continues, helliwell suggested there could be a second “vaccine” of sorts while we wait: “a social vaccine that protects us against loneliness and disconnection and other things that can happen when a disease asks you to be physically isolated, when the last thing you want is social isolation.” keep up with the latest updates on the coronavirus at our live blog. for more content and to be part of the “this new world” community, follow our facebook page. huffpost’s “this new world” series is funded by partners for a new economy and the kendeda fund. all content is editorially independent, with no influence or input from the foundations. if you have an idea or tip for the editorial series, send an email to thisnewworld@huffpost.com. related... 6 experts on why we panic about the coronavirus but not about the climate crisis coronavirus crisis workers need child care help. these states are stepping up. 10 ways to practice solidarity in a time of social distancing suggest a correction laura paddison editor, this new world more: social media coronavirus this new world pandemic nordic countries world happiness report trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.