 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog what is an rss feed? how does it work? written by: anya skrba (published on: august 17th, 2017 last updated: october 16th, 2018) posted in: blogging 0 comment written by anya skrba information is all around us, and more often than not, it is simply hard to keep track. it can be frustrating, as important news are happening every day and it is important to stay up-to-date. such a significant amount of information is probably hard to filter out, to only follow what you want and what you are interested in, without distractions. it is efficient to follow good news sources on facebook, as they will show up in your feed and offer the latest information as it becomes available. but a single unintentional click, like a refresh, and that news story will be lost, unless you can remember exactly which page published it and when. facebook’s algorithm shows a different homepage based on their factors. so, how do you follow only what you want, without having to miss anything important? that is where the rss feeds come into play. rss stands for really simple syndication, mainly an aggregation of news all in one place. what makes rss stand out? typically, pages filled with different kinds of multimedia files, audio and visual cues, as well as ads. rss reduces that to the bare minimum – the title, and the text which comprises the main body of the page. if the main content is a video, or an audio stream (like a podcast), rss will take that into account. by minimizing the available content to only what we want to read, without being distracted by some irrelevant stories, you have two major benefits – you can quickly find the desired info within the text, and it provides an excellent way to deal with compatibility issues. all kinds of devices support simple text, videos, and audio, which makes rss quite potent. another important aspect is that rss delivers the content to you, without having to check it manually. how does it deliver content to me? rss implementation is completely free, for both website owners and website users. rss readers, on the other hand, range from free to premium versions. rss readers, or aggregators, run in the background and silently check for news from the subscribed channels, and create a feed for you to look at. the feed needs to be specially formatted so that the readers (aggregators) can, well, read it. that way, your reader will show a short snippet of the news, which you can open and read the full text if you are interested. the aggregator will notify you about any new information available, or you will have to check them manually, it all depends on your preferences, and when the website you have subscribed to, posts something new – you can instantly access it. how to use rss aggregators? there are many readers out there, as the ease of use of each one makes it an extremely viable alternative option. most casual users will find one of these options most appealing – they have a simple interface, and are incredibly simple to use. after you’ve set up your aggregator, you just need to start adding subscriptions. rss has a unique icon which is easy to notice, and you just need to visit the desired news portal and find it or search for their rss feed in google. feedly has built-in search options which can find some of the most popular feeds and add them directly to your stream. what can an rss be used for? well, you don’t have to collect only news in your reader – you can usually subscribe to ebay search results, and many other popular platforms have the same service, allowing you direct access to what you are interested in. conclusion in the end, it all boils down to convenience – rss is incredibly easy to use, set up, and it consumes much less internet bandwidth than traditional browsing and opening a web page with hundreds of intrusive images, pop-ups, and auto-playing videos. it is especially important for those who are constantly on the move. for the rest of us, it provides an excellent stream of things we are interested in, without having to waste our time being tricked by click bait, or rechecking a web page to see if it has been updated with new info. this entry was posted in blogging. bookmark the permalink. additional reading control the rss feed on your wordpress site like a pro don’t use feedburner - the 10 great rss alternatives for wordpress how to move your blog from wix to wordpress how to move your blog from weebly to wordpress robot wisdom and how jorn barger invented blogging start your own blog this guide is an introduction to mastering the art of blogging. it provides easy to follow steps to start, maintain, and grow your blog. read the guide « previous yoast seo plugin overview next » don’t use feedburner – the 10 great rss alternatives for wordpress leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.