the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop infographic what’s in congress’ coronavirus stimulus bill you may also like politics trump announces plan to retrain nation’s 3 million unemployed americans as human ventilators 44 minutes ago politics congress sets aside $1,200 in trust for each american until they prove they’re responsible enough to handle it yesterday 11:00am politics trump urges loosening cdc restrictions to let coronavirus get to work tuesday 12:55pm more from g/o media read on china will lift lockdown on wuhan april 8th read on deal alert: the federal government is cutting you a $1,200 stimulus check that you can, and should, spend exclusively on 75 copies of ‘stardew valley’ read on 10 photos of plus-size models we deserve a pat on the back for running read on woman working from home instinctively tries to steal tampons from own bathroom subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe today 2:19pm • see more: congress congresscoronavirusinfographicvol 56 issue 12 after days of frenzied negotiations, congress passed a $2 trillion stimulus package to address economic issues caused by the coronavirus, the largest such aid package in u.s. history. the onion takes a look at what’s in the stimulus bill. direct payments of $1,200 for single americans, $2,400 for married couples, and $3,000 for those playing the field. advertisement $32 billion to an airline industry that charged you for a blanket on your last flight. paywall taken off u.s. unemployment office website. more protections than you’d think necessary to safeguard american people from their president. advertisement lot of money the government has spent decades telling americans it didn’t have and couldn’t spend. advertisement probably something that sounds very good and turns out to be very bad. five dollars to senator ron johnson for winning betting pool that rand paul would get virus first. advertisement every family will receive $500 per child, but officials may not come to collect the children until may. advertisement federal aid for independent contractors, such as uber drivers and assassins. a stern reminder that this is a one-time thing. advertisement share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion congress sets aside $1,200 in trust for each american until they prove they’re responsible enough to handle it how the 1% are responding to coronavirus thousands of formerly endangered white rhinos flood city streets mere days after humans quarantined indoors british man astounded to hear how much it would cost to get mustard jar removed from rectum under u.s. healthcare system share tweet