content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip what is content marketing? useful content should be at the core of your marketing traditional marketing is becoming less and less effective by the minute; as a forward-thinking marketer, you know there has to be a better way. enter content marketing. content marketing is a strategic marketing approach focused on creating and distributing valuable, relevant, and consistent content to attract and retain a clearly defined audience — and, ultimately, to drive profitable customer action. instead of pitching your products or services, you are providing truly relevant and useful content to your prospects and customers to help them solve their issues. content marketing is used by leading brands our annual research shows the vast majority of marketers are using content marketing. in fact, it is used by many prominent organizations in the world, including p&g, microsoft, cisco systems, and john deere. it’s also developed and executed by small businesses and one-person shops around the globe. why? because it works. here is just one example of content marketing in action: looking for more examples of content marketing? download our ultimate e-book with 75 content marketing examples. content marketing is good for your bottom line — and your customers specifically, there are three key reasons — and benefits — for enterprises that use content marketing: increased sales cost savings better customers who have more loyalty content is the present – and future – of marketing go back and read the content marketing definition one more time, but this time remove the relevant and valuable. that’s the difference between content marketing and the other informational garbage you get from companies trying to sell you “stuff.” companies send us information all the time – it’s just that most of the time it’s not very relevant or valuable (can you say spam?). that’s what makes content marketing so intriguing in today’s environment of thousands of marketing messages per person per day. marketing is impossible without great content regardless of what type of marketing tactics you use, content marketing should be part of your process, not something separate. quality content is part of all forms of marketing: social media marketing: content marketing strategy comes before your social media strategy. seo: search engines reward businesses that publish quality, consistent content. pr: successful pr strategies address issues readers care about, not their business. ppc: for ppc to work, you need great content behind it. inbound marketing: content is key to driving inbound traffic and leads. content strategy: content strategy is part of most content marketing strategies. to be effective at content marketing, it is essential to have a documented content marketing strategy. download our 16-page guide to learn what questions to ask and how to develop your strategy. what if your customers looked forward to receiving your marketing? what if when they received it, via print, email, website, they spent 15, 30, 45 minutes with it? what if they anticipated it and shared it with their peers? if you are intrigued and ready to learn more, we can help. here are a few popular ways to dig in: new to content marketing? check out our getting started guide, where you’ll learn the definition of content marketing, as well as basic steps for putting a content marketing plan in place. need a content strategy? read the cmi content marketing framework, which outlines the essential building blocks for a successful content marketing program. looking for some content marketing examples? download our ultimate e-book: 75 content marketing examples. are you in marketing leadership? subscribe to our free magazine, chief content officer, to stay on top of the latest industry trends. need advice specific to your organization? contact our consulting group, led by strategist robert rose, to find out how they can help you meet your content marketing challenges. if at any time you have questions about content marketing, don’t hesitate to reach out and ask us. connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree