wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » what are the limitations of wordpress.com what are the limitations of wordpress.com last updated on january 15th, 2018 by editorial staff 97 shares share tweet share pin if you want to start a blog, then wordpress.com offers a hassle free solution to get started. we are often asked by our users how they can get started with blogging. we usually respond with the question, “what do you want to do with your blog?”. a lot of people just want to share their personal thoughts, ramblings, photos and such. for that purpose, wordpress.com offers a free, easy to use, secure and stable platform for you to blog on. however, if you want to do more with your blog such as make money, build a membership community, among other things, then there are some inherent limitations. in this article, we will help you understand what are the limitations of wordpress.com, so you can determine if wordpress.com is the solution for you. earning limitations you can not run google adsense or other advertising programs to serve ads on your wordpress.com blog. you can not write paid posts, sell links, review products, etc. wordpress.com terms of service restrict you from using your free blog for any commercial activity on your own. however, you can apply for wordpress.com’s advertising program which is called wordads. this program is currently available to wordpress.com blogs that match certain traffic and quality requirements. once you are approved for wordads program, you will be sharing your advertising revenue with wordpress.com. note: if you have a book, then you can have an ad for that on your wordpress.com blog. they just don’t allow ads for products or services that you do not own. you can not upload plugins the real power of wordpress comes from the freedom to customize and extend the core functionality. you can not extend the functionality of wordpress.com by uploading plugins. you are given a comprehensive but still a limited set of features. a lot of people who migrate from wordpress.com to self hosted wordpress.org do so just to take advantage of certain features that come with these amazing plugins. you can not upload themes you can only use themes currently available to wordpress.com users. some of these themes are free and others come with a one time fee. in any case the theme choice is very limited. secondly, you can not modify those themes. for an additional $30, you can add custom css and fonts to your theme but that is it. you cannot modify theme features or theme functionality. if you want to use one of the powerful ecommerce themes, or one of the many commercial themes that is not available to wordpress.com users, then you are out of luck. if you want to have a completely custom built theme for you, then you are also out of luck. account suspension wordpress.com is very strict in protecting their services from abuse. they suspend blogs suspected of activities prohibited in their terms of service. visitors can also report a blog. wordpress.com allows suspended blogs to export their posts for a limited time. also wordpress.com may not even notify or ask a blog owner to remove content. this means that usually there is no warning for the blog owner. once a blog is suspended the wordpress.com subdomain will be held and will not be released for anyone else to use. not a development platform wordpress has become a powerful content management system in itself. it is no more just a blog publishing platform. with wordpress.com, you are only getting a free blog service and not the actual powerful cms features that are becoming the main reason of wordpress’ popularity. to make it easier for you to understand is that lets suppose that you start with a basic blog and then want to offer online courses, sell digital downloads, or add a forum, or even an online store. it is not possible to do all this on your free wordpress.com blog. conclusion our recommendation is that first you need to realize what you want to do with your blog, make a plan and then choose. if you just need to express yourself then wordpress.com is an easy and wonderful option for you. but if you want to build on to your website and do more with your blog then consider wordpress.org. we offer a free wordpress blog setup service where we can help you get started. if you are one of the users who want to switch from wordpress.com to wordpress.org, then we highly recommend that you follow our guide. 97 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 39 commentsleave a reply steve walker says: may 28, 2019 at 6:55 pm i really think this article needs a bit of an update. wordpress.com has a free tier and multiple paid tiers where many, if not all, of the things you cannot do in the free tier can be done. wordpress.org is the source of the software for self-hosted sites, but for those new to wp, managing hosting and configuration might be more than they are looking for. i use both self-hosted and wordpress.com business tier and 99% of the time there is no difference except the peace of mind that somebody is optimizing the infrastructure versus doing it myself. reply wpbeginner support says: may 29, 2019 at 10:12 am we can certainly take a look at this article, for our more current comparison you could take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/self-hosted-wordpress-org-vs-free-wordpress-com-infograph/ not all sites require managed hosting, there’s also the option for shared hosting reply michael says: nov 18, 2018 at 8:58 am i have signed up to a personal plan at wordpress.org but through my personal account. i have 2 sites now, one that is free and is just used for personal blogging and suits my purposes fine. the other one however which i am currently in the process of setting up is for business purposes. i am starting to get the feeling though that i have been scammed, not intentionally scammed but just certain details omitted at the signup stage like how many pages you can have with a personal website? currently in my editor it shows all the buttons for pages but i seem to only be able to navigate to home and blog in the customising editor but in the site editor i am able to navigate to all the pages i have created?? its really weird and i have to say i am not very fond of the editor interface, why couldn’t they just combine the customising editor into the site editor like google does, so much easier and straight forward to understand? reply tyler says: sep 11, 2018 at 2:59 pm testing shows automating blog posts also has a limitation, it looked like i hit a terms of service, it removed the subdomain.wordpress.com and i have to say my test was very insightful. thanks for the blog mate. it’s a hard topic to discuss the complexities of wordpress ownership & the slap on the wrist that is swapping from free version to your own personal hosted solution. reply robin says: mar 20, 2018 at 5:15 am it’s possible to switch from your free wordpress blog to wordpress.org’s software, yeah? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 20, 2018 at 3:42 pm hi robin, yes, see our step by step tutorial on how to move from wordpress.com to wordpress.org. reply mary connor says: feb 19, 2018 at 5:50 pm i want a personal record of my travels for friends and family. that’s all. no money, no ads, no paypal or buttons. can i write about and add multiple photos in a single posting? reply cheryl ahlquist says: may 4, 2017 at 4:00 pm is my use of a free wordpress.com blog site limited to a certain number of years or to a limited amount of space used on my site? i would like to continue to indefinitely use the free wordpress option if possible. reply ot says: jan 17, 2017 at 6:09 am hi ! i already decide wordpress.org but i am a 0 about codes and maintenance is my biggest question. when you talk about maintenance what it is mean. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 17, 2017 at 3:51 pm hi ot, it means that you will have to install updates when they are available. you will see a notification in wordpress admin area that updates are available and you just need to click on update to install them. you will also need to setup a backup plugin to automatically backup your wordpress site. reply shiq4 says: dec 13, 2016 at 4:52 pm i want ask one question, is it fine to offering a page for my own service such as content writer’s page? reply leigh says: may 1, 2016 at 7:05 pm one of the things that is never mentioned in using wp.com is that it has excellent security and a very strong fire wall to protect your site/blog from hackers. our site (which publishes global news on human rights issues around the world) actually moved from a very developed wp.org platform back over to wp.com this last year. wp.com was actually the original platform we used over a decade ago. but after we grew to a site that had over 105,000 impressions per day we also started having an ongoing assault of global hackers trying to get into our site. this required more and more security on our end….with more more cost and effort in hiring the right security experts. we also had many more hassles. along with all of this we had numerous times when our wp.org site went offline due to hackster attempts. wordpress.com is much more safe for any of you wanting this with your site/blog. reply wpbeginner support says: may 4, 2016 at 10:59 pm you should have given sucuri a try. we use it on all our wordpress sites. reply leigh says: may 6, 2016 at 12:25 am hi there – our past experience is with a great app that is used by many people on wp.org called bullet proof security (we used the pro version) and we did work closely with edward alexander the creater of this program. while this is probably one of the best, it also requires alot of tech (knowlede) based management and troubleshooting when php, .htacess and other actionable code needs tweeking when hackers efforts are present. going over to wp.com made the process with security a no time, no problem, no effor processt. thanks again for provinding this forum to discuss this important topic. : ) reply mr free account says: apr 28, 2016 at 10:14 am i have been building web-site for many year and had a look at worldpress.com using a free account and did not think much too it. yes i can upload one picture to be used on the home page but apart from that they don’t let you upload nuffing and all you can do is embed images that are hosted on remote servers by using the editor and switching to html view. web-pages are all about pictures and it seems like a waste of time if they won’t provide any space for uploading files even on a free account so i think i will knock it on the head reply velik says: apr 27, 2016 at 7:10 pm i feel scammed. when i signed up for wordpress recently and bought my own domain – around $70 in total, nobody told me that there are two types of wordpress : wordpress.com and wordpress.org you can’t access permalinks, nor add/remove plug-ins on wordpress.com . now i need to buy a new domain and pay $70 more in order to do this…. i feel scammed.﻿ reply wpbeginner support says: apr 28, 2016 at 6:21 pm you don’t need to buy a new domain name. you can use your custom domain at wordpress.com with your new self-hosted wordpress site. take a look at our free blog setup service if you need more help. reply alana says: dec 9, 2016 at 3:31 pm this is a very resourceful article that can help many people. last week i purchased my domain (premium) on wordpress.com and feel scammed because i didn’t realize that i cannot add advertising, plugins, and that i earn through wordads by us based traffic only coming to my page. now i am making my plan to move over to wordpress.org because my whole intention was to build my brand, focus on product reviews, airlines, and hotels that i have used that i trust. i cannot do this with wordpress.com. i have thirty days to claim my refund……… reply amanda says: apr 10, 2016 at 7:55 pm hello editorial staff, i know wordpress.org would be ideal for my needs as i would like to have a blog about my craft projects and then be able to sell them, but currently do not have the income to spare to pay for a self-hosted website though bluehost. you said to widdershins that they can put a paypal button for their book. can i do the same for multiple items or just one or two till i can switch to a self-hosted website? thank you, amanda reply wpbeginner support says: apr 11, 2016 at 3:59 pm it is not a good solution, but you can do that. reply m obrien says: jul 27, 2015 at 12:13 pm if i decide blogging is not for me can i remove my blog? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 27, 2015 at 3:15 pm yes you can. reply m.a. says: jun 17, 2014 at 8:04 pm i have been using wordpress.com for over a year now, and just this week, i am having trouble downloading pictures to my blogs? is there ever a maximum # of blogs/pics i can post before it is full? please help. reply wpbeginner staff says: jun 17, 2014 at 9:24 pm please contact wordpress.com support. reply darrell wolfe says: mar 12, 2014 at 12:59 am and that is the reason i went from wordpress.com (even though i liked all of those features they do have and it’s technically easier to use) to blogger.com because i want to make money on my blog before paying to use a blog. will word-press ever lighten up on this monetization policy? it seems like they’d be loosing money by blocking monetization and affiliate links? how am i supposed to learn to use their service and upgrade if i can’t use their service first? it seemed very elitist. like they didn’t want me on their services? so why do they put all these blocks on? darrell wolfe reply kathye says: mar 8, 2013 at 6:13 pm i’m interested in creating a website that includes a blog, but is not ‘blog-driven’ . we are an art gallery. is wordpress.com or is wordpress.org more appropriate. thanks. reply editorial staff says: mar 9, 2013 at 5:37 am definitely wordpress.org reply dawn oviedo says: mar 5, 2013 at 2:20 pm so if i register my domain to own it… can i bring it with me to wordpress.org? what is the minimum traffic needed to be considered for wordads? thx reply editorial staff says: mar 7, 2013 at 10:20 am yes you can bring your domain over to wordpress.org. requirement for wordads have changed, and they no longer reveal the minimum traffic. reply geoff says: feb 24, 2013 at 6:38 am everything you say about not being able to upload themes is correct, but it makes the situation sound a little more dire than it is. there are still over 200 themes (50 being premium) and they seem to add a couple more every week. many of these themes have very nice visual customisation options, even if you don’t pay for the ‘custom design’ features. if you do pay, you’ll see that they’ve done an excellent job there: users can create unique colour schemes with a brilliant designer tool, get access to lots of web fonts, and even more through adobe. the css editor is snazzy too, even allowing less and sass to be used. of course, if you want to make functional changes you’ll be out of luck. reply editorial staff says: feb 25, 2013 at 7:21 am you are correct, there are 200+ themes on wordpress.com. but there are almost 1700 themes for wordpress.org (in the free wp repository). this is not counting tons of commercial themes that are not listed in the repository. reply geoff says: feb 25, 2013 at 9:26 am i wasn’t challenging your correctness, just the tone: > “in any case the theme choice is very limited. secondly, you can not modify those themes.” 200 themes isn’t really ‘limited’, and you can modify them. your thesis for this article is totally correct: wp.com has big limitations. users should know up-front what they want to accomplish. i was just picking at the fact that you made it sound like there were hardly and themes available and that you couldn’t touch them. (without paying for css anyway). reply gautam doddamani says: feb 24, 2013 at 1:02 am i believe wordpress.com is a great step for whoever wants to take the plunge into the blogging ocean…beginners can analyze and assess themselves if they have what it takes to make their business a professional one…there are many limitations i agree but its great for free blogging! reply adam says: feb 22, 2013 at 6:43 am but all this info should have been appearing the step before registration not only from this link. then the customer will know what he wants. for instance i did register but as i am very new to creating a blog or websites i didn’t know all this and i didn’t understand that my domain which i registered by wordpress is now stuck 60 days due to a law that doesn’t allow the user to move the domain to a another webhost. this should some go be appearing before payment . now i can’t install plugins and have to wait 60 days until i remove my domain regards adam reply editorial staff says: feb 22, 2013 at 7:03 am you can’t transfer your domain, but you should be able to change the nameservers and point it to another location. reply widdershins says: feb 21, 2013 at 3:49 pm so … i can have an ad for my book – which i have, with links to my publisher … but if i self publish a book, i can’t sell it from my wordpress.com blog … for instance have a paypal ‘buy me’ button for it on my blog … yes? … no? … otherwise? reply editorial staff says: feb 22, 2013 at 6:13 am you can add a paypal button on your wordpress.com site. reply umer rock says: feb 21, 2013 at 9:20 am yes wordpress is very limited… but for beginners it is very best to start their demo wordpress reply rohit says: feb 21, 2013 at 8:30 am at the price, it does not get cheaper for the reliability they offer. it can be a good starting point for many blogger, who want to experiment with a blog, but on a budget. you can always migrate if your blog grows big. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.