subscribe to amy's newsletter home books kopp sisters series audio & ebook print & signed books from amy stewart paintings events book clubs & skype author visits exhibits how to book a talk with amy stewart about media images press kit classes blog navigation what’s new ink your drink! a new class on painting cocktails posted by amy stewart on march 26, 2020 in cocktails, creativity, paintings new on skillshare! i’m teaching the ink transfer technique i’ve been posting about lately on instagram. to find out more about the class, and to get 2 months free on skillshare, use this link. (and there are tons of great classes on skillshare! i’m particularly fond of jim richard’s urban sketching class.) to see all the classes i’m teaching on skillshare, here’s a link that shows you all the classes and also gives you 2 free months. i went on a sketching trip to mexico and i took you with me posted by amy stewart on march 6, 2020 in creativity, paintings we just went to mexico together! well, almost. i took my ipad to guanajuato, mexico last week and filmed an online class on travel sketching–so you can watch it and it’s almost like being there! i decided to focus on the two subjects that are easiest for beginners–building facades (meaning, looking straight on, no perspective skills required) and landscapes. this class walks you through the process i use when i’m out and about sketching, and even shows you how i handle my materials when i’m out on the streets and want to make sure i don’t lose anything! i’m teaching it on skillshare, where i also teach writing courses. i love the format and ease of use of skillshare, and i’ve learned a lot from taking art and tech classes there. go here to check out all my classes, and this link will also give you two months free access if you’d like to sign up. story structure is a thing we all wrestle with posted by amy stewart on january 31, 2020 in creativity, fiction my next skillshare class is live and it’s on the beast we all struggle with, both fiction and nonfiction writers: story structure. there are lots of people out there peddling complex, intricate techniques for writing a hit novel or screenplay. honestly, i get a little overwhelmed by all that stuff. so i made a class about the methods i actually use when i write my own books, and i encourage you to try these out, see if they work, and try some other approaches if they don’t! i include a resource list for further study at the end. i’ve loved teaching these classes and i especially appreciate your comments, projects, questions, and reviews. use this link to get 2 months free on skillshare, which is plenty of time to take lots of classes! i’m teaching writing classes on skillshare posted by amy stewart on january 13, 2020 in creativity, writing big news for the new year! i’m teaching a series of writing classes on skillshare, which is an online teaching platform that works on a subscription model, like netflix. the first two courses are live now, and you can get two months free through this link. the people at skillshare approached me about teaching a couple years ago, but i couldn’t get my head around the idea at the time. then i took a class on the platform–jim richard’s class on sketching people–and do you know what i really liked about it? i liked how small the class was. bite-sized lessons, each only five or ten minutes long, and many of the courses are only half an hour in total. skillshare is about teaching one particular discreet skill, and then another, and then another. that really appeals to me. i tend to think small: one page at a time, one drawing at a time, one event at a time–the way i keep from getting overwhelmed is to break everything down into really small, manageable bits. that’s how i get books written. and now i’ve realized–that’s how i can teach, too. usually, when i teach a writing workshop, it lasts for two or three days (or two or three months!) and covers so much. but these classes are going to be different. they’re going to tackle one small building block at a time….just like i do every day. so. the first two classes are very new years resolution-ish, and both of them try to answer the two most common problems i hear about from aspiring writers: “i want to write a book, but i don’t know where to start.” this class, start your book today, is my answer to that. what i also hear a lot is, “i wish i could write, but i’m just not disciplined enough.” build great writing habits will, i hope, put the “i’m not disciplined enough” myth to bed once and for all. next up will be some more concrete, nuts-and-bolts topics, from storytelling techniques to research methods to the revision process. it’s everything i do, one bit at a time. and…people ask me a lot if i would teach a travel sketching class, so i’m going to give that a try when i’m in mexico next month. stay tuned! your reviews would mean a lot to me. if you’re already a skillshare member, you can follow me here to be notified of new classes and updates. and if you’d like to sign up, two free months is more than enough time to check out my classes and anything else you might be interested in. i’d really appreciate it if you’d post a review, share your project, or put a comment in the discussion. and stay tuned for more! messing about with paint posted by amy stewart on december 9, 2019 in creativity, paintings here’s something new i just sort of fell into: i was messing around with a painting and made a big mess and decided the big mess looked interesting. next think i knew, i was making these abstract watercolor paintings. i’ve been noodling away at them every day while i write my next book—or while i’m supposed to be writing, i guess. is it procrastination? a distraction? a good way to take a break without looking at twitter? regardless, this is such a malleable process that i can literally redo it from scratch every day if i want to…i don’t know how exactly you call a thing like this “done,” but at some point i stop and move on to another panel, another color… it’s kind of like writing, in that way–you put something down, you wipe it off, you try again… . if you want the technical details: i’m taking an ultra slick gesso board (in this case a blick premier studio panel, but i’ve used ampersand clayboard too) and just dropping one or two watercolors on them to see what they do in water on a non-absorbent surface. it’s kind of hypnotic and endlessly erasable—all of this would wipe right off with water and i’d have a fresh white panel (maybe slightly stained, depending on the pigment) to start over. . once i decide it’s done, i give it a couple sprays of krylon uv archival varnish in satin, then a coat or two of gamblin cold wax medium to soften the shine. after that, it’s as durable and lightfast as an oil painting. time for another art auction! posted by amy stewart on november 8, 2019 in paintings i’m auctioning off a bunch of paintings to benefit two worthwhile charities. if you want to skip the explanation and go straight to the auction, go here. bidding ends november 17, 2019. it’s been a tough three years, friends. if you’re like me, maybe you’ve found it hard to keep going in the face of catastrophically bad news night after night, terrifying world events, and just an unbearable, soul-crushing sense that our country has lost its way. many of us have a hard time making art in the face of — well, all of it. especially if, like me, your art involves making pretty pictures of pretty places. what’s the point of that, if the planet’s on fire? well, what i decided to do, exactly three years ago, was to keep making my art, because i love to do it. only i made one change: i started auctioning it off for charity. 100 percent of the money i’ve made from every painting i’ve sold in three years has gone to one group or another that is out there fighting the good fight. the aclu. planned parenthood. pro publica. the american refugee committee. now i’m doing twenty auctions to benefit two groups. these groups have been advocating for justice and reform on two of the most painful issues of 2019: gun violence and immigrant detention. mass shootings. people locked up in government detention camps. we shouldn’t even be saying these words in 2019. it’s unthinkable, what we’ve seen this year. so–here is a way that you can fight back. go buy yourself a pretty painting, and know that every penny you spend will go directly to these two groups through ebay’s charity program: raices: the refugee and immigrant center for education and legal services giffords law center to prevent gun violence (gabby gifford’s non-profit) go here to take a look at the paintings i have up for auction. if you want to know about future auctions i might do, feel free to add me to your favorite sellers on ebay, or sign up for my newsletter. you can also follow me on instagram for art updates. bad drawings make great backgrounds: when a sketchbook page goes wrong posted by amy stewart on august 5, 2019 in creativity, paintings when i travel, i always take a sketchbook to keep a record of the trip (and, honestly, to entertain myself, because there are only so many old churches one can tour in a day). here’s a video tour of my latest sketchbook, and you can always see more on instagram. but what happens when a page in a sketchbook goes horribly wrong? now, i’ve filled lots of sketchbooks with practice and lessons, and every single page in those books could be described as “wrong”–although i’d call it “learning.” those pages aren’t meant for anyone else to see, much less judge. but sometimes, we artists do get focused on the results, and we want to be able to show our pretty travel sketchbooks to our friends when we get home. so what happens if, on one page, you try to draw a boat and it ends up looking like a turtle–drawn by a five year-old? what do you do when you make a mess? one option is to just leave it. i do. if anybody’s flipping through my sketchbooks and they pause on a page of weird, awful, wrong drawings, i’ll either say nothing and let them keep flipping, or i’ll say, “that’s what we call a practice page.” some artists will glue two unfortunate pages together. i don’t like to do that, because you might not have two unfortunate pages next to each other, and besides, i hate to waste paper. also, it makes for a weird, bulky, don’t-look-at-this page in the middle of the book, which seems somehow shameful (to me, anyway), and i don’t want shame in my sketchbooks. another option is to cover it up with collage. i travel with a glue stick for this very reason. ticket stubs, bits of tourist maps, newspaper headlines, even a silly drawing or note on a post-it…you can find some bits and pieces and glue them down. like this: or–if the drawing’s light enough–why not just write on top of it? i did this dull little watercolor that just made me sad to look at, but then i wrote on top of it and the whole thing seemed much more interesting to me. bad drawings make great backgrounds. i’m an aspiring author. do i need a website? posted by amy stewart on august 5, 2019 in creativity, writing every month in my newsletter, i offer readers a chance to win the book of their choice if they ask me a question. i pick a question to answer in the next newsletter, then i send them their book. this month, an aspiring author asked me, “i have 2 novels being shopped by my lit agent, at the moment i’m trying to decide whether a website is worth my time, energy or financial investment. do you think an author’s website is worth having before they have anything published?” the answer is yes, yes, yes, a thousand times yes! here’s why. it shows agents and publishers that you are a professional and that you are capable of doing simple tasks on the internet. this sounds silly to say in 2019, but some publishing professionals are still suffering ptsd from the days, not too long ago, when authors refused to even get an email address. you have to show them that you can handle some business basics. a website allows those agents and publishers to get a glimpse of you from another perspective. yes, they have your manuscript/proposal, your cover letter, and whatever else you’ve put together. but if they google you, they can just see you in a slightly different light. even if your website gives them the same information they already have in front of them, it just helps to see it out there, in the world. your website is your calling card. it’s your doorstep. if you’re an aspiring author (or artist of any kind), you have ambitions to put yourself out there in the world. this is the first step. it doesn’t matter how new, inexperienced, or aspiring you are. grab that domain name and build yourself a home online, even if it’s a rudimentary, temporary home. a few years ago, i taught creative writing in an mfa program. i asked how many students had a website, or had even registered a domain name. only one or two had. i was astonished. they were spending a fortune to earn a degree in writing, with the hopes of making it their career, but they hadn’t taken the simple step of a single-page website? so. put on some nice music, pour yourself a drink, and get this done in an hour. here’s what you do. first, register your name as your website domain if it’s available. if you can’t get your name, try for yournameauthor.com or yournamebooks.com or yournamewriter.com or something like that. (don’t bother with .org, .biz, etc. just get a good .com site) do this today. at godaddy, you can register your domain for about $10/year. you can set up this domain anywhere, not just at godaddy. godaddy simply handles the registration and ownership. (and lots of other companies do this, too.) second, build a website. this does not have to be a massive, awful project. pick a template. do not spend hours looking at templates. pick the first clean, simple one you see. upload your photo, your bio, a contact form, and your social media links. you can quickly set up a page like this on godaddy, squarespace, wix, and many other sites. this is going to cost about $10/month no matter where you do it. don’t agonize over which service to use. you might change your mind later once you have some books to sell. that’s ok. just get something up there. third: once you’ve recovered from that phase of the project, dive back in for another hour. add a second page or section called projects (or something like that. writing. painting. articles. stories. whatever your work is called). on that page or section, at the very least, make a list of links to whatever it is that you’ve already done. even better, add little thumbnail photos so there’s something nice and visual to go along with this list. it can include articles or stories you’ve published, interviews you’ve given, youtube videos, a pie-eating contest you won…whatever you’ve got. ultimately, yes, you will need a more robust website kind of like mine. you might have to build it on a different platform, like wordpress. you might want to pay someone to do the basic construction so that you just go in and add text and pictures and updates. that’s what i do. (and by the way, my website is a straight-up copy of three famous authors’ websites. i took ideas from each, sent screen shots to my designer, and told her to adapt those ideas to my site. you don’t have to re-invent the wheel.) if you haven’t found her yet, jane friedman is a great resource for website questions and everything an author might want to know about the business side of things. just get it done! good luck! the diy mfa: how i got an arts education without massive debt posted by amy stewart on august 2, 2019 in creativity when i was on book tour recently, someone in the audience asked me what i thought about mfas. i didn’t have much time to answer, but i told her that i have mixed feelings about a university arts education, and that i like the idea of a diy mfa. that’s what i did. i’ve spent some money on my arts education, but i’ve done it over a thirty-year period and i’ve been selective and intentional about what i studied and why. i promised to post a longer answer about what i did (and what anyone can do) – so here it is. i’m not categorically opposed to mfas. i’ve taught in an mfa program, and found my students to be hard-working, diligent, curious, and committed. a few have gone on to publish books or find work in their creative field. but an mfa isn’t for everyone. here’s why: who has the money? have you been offered a scholarship or grant? great! go for it. but nobody, in my opinion, should go into massive debt to get a fine arts education, unless they already have a career (or a spouse) with a steady paycheck and can comfortably afford the loan payments on their regular income. (even then, think twice. anyone’s career can take a hit. anyone’s health can take a hit. anyone’s marriage, for that matter, can take a hit. don’t put your future self in an untenable position.) an mfa at a prestigious school, including room and board, can run to six figures. attending a local public university or taking a low-residency program could set you back twenty or thirty grand. even if you can pay cash for an mfa—think twice about that. maybe you’re better off putting half in your retirement account and using the other half to fund your diy mfa. (more on that in a minute) who has the time? the burden on your time is another consideration. most people working toward an mfa are juggling schoolwork with other obligations, namely jobs and families. if the only way to get through your mfa program is to put in fourteen hour days and marathon, late-night homework sessions, you’re probably not getting the full benefit of the program. learning a new skill takes time and attention—and by time, i mean chronological time. you need silence, empty moments, and opportunities to ruminate, tinker, and practice. it takes weeks, months, and sometimes years for a new skill or concept to really sink in. that can’t be rushed. if you’re going too fast, and worried about a hundred different responsibilities, it’s possible that a good deal of your expensive arts education simply isn’t sinking in. what are you actually going to learn? there’s no guarantee that an mfa program will teach you what you want to learn. every painter i know complains that they weren’t taught to draw and paint in art school. writers are rarely given more than a perfunctory overview of the publishing process. you might be taught how to teach in an mfa program—but is an adjunct faculty position really the best way to make a living while you pursue your art? would you be better off working as an electrician, a pharmacist, or a dog walker—any kind of gig that doesn’t make a demand on your creative energy? why not do it yourself? for all these reasons, i propose the diy mfa. take half the money you would’ve spent on an mfa—and by “take” the money, i mean either set it aside, if you (miraculously) already have the cash sitting around, or set up a separate bank account and transfer in half of what you would’ve spent on student loan payments. (or less! you’d be amazed at what you can do with $100 a month.) with that money, do the following: workshops. find the artists you love and follow them on social media. sign up for their newsletters. they’ll let you know when they’re teaching. be prepared to enroll the minute their course registration goes live. be prepared to travel. putting yourself on a plane, and renting a place to stay, are worthwhile education expenses. and if the artist you love doesn’t teach? email and ask. offer to host a workshop, if you think you can round up a dozen friends and locate a teaching space. i only teach writing when i’m invited to. if someone emailed me with an offer like this, i’d consider it. find the ateliers and art academies that offer courses that interest you, and follow them. here in portland, i can take art workshops at the oregon society of artists, just a few blocks from my house. writing workshops are always on offer at literary arts. consider the cities to which you can easily travel. do you have friends with a guest room in santa fe? look for workshops there. and don’t forget that free and low-cost workshops might pop up at the library, the parks and recreation department, the senior center, and your local college’s adult ed program. and when you get into those workshops: ask the instructor to teach you what you want to learn. most artists who teach are happy to modify their lesson plan, within reason. just ask politely, and be specific. i’ve said things in art workshops like, “i love the way you show light hitting a surface. can you demonstrate that?” ask if you can take process photos for your personal use. keep every handout. remember every exercise. trust me, you can get an entire semester’s education out of a three-day workshop if you keep doing the work after the workshop ends. and here’s a bonus: after your workshop, invite some artist friends over and share a bit of what you learned. it’ll help you to make sense of it, and it’s a great way to extend a little arts education into your circle. finally…after the workshop ends, keep in touch with those instructors! follow them on social media. buy their work and recommend it to others. send them a thank-you note. these are your professors. it’s ok to stay in touch with them. online tutorials. there’s a lifetime’s worth of free and low-cost art education available online. i love these lively, funny basic drawing videos on youtube. i learned everything i know about urban sketching from bluprint. peter martin teaches jazz piano online. shonda rhimes’ masterclass on screenwriting looks amazing. (pro tip: take these classes with a friend. invite somebody over ever tuesday night and do an online class, or a chapter out of an instruction book.) practice with a group. i’m not a fan of critique groups, but i love practice groups. my dad played jazz in his living room with three other musicians for years. they weren’t looking to perform: they were just after a good practice session together. i know writers who make a date to write together, and writers who get together to spitball ideas for stories without ever showing each other a page of what they’ve written. i go out sketching with my local urban sketchers chapter. weekly life drawing groups are available just about anywhere. find a walking buddy for your art. it’ll get you out of your rut, keep you accountable, and expose you to fresh ideas. create your own retreat. renting a studio space is part of your arts education. escaping to a cabin in the woods is part of your arts education. hiring a babysitter is part of your arts education. taking unpaid leave from work is part of your arts education. all of these things take money, but remember, this is the money that you saved by not getting an mfa. if it allows you the time and space to practice, explore, and make work—do it. buy subscriptions, memberships, and season tickets. get a membership at your art museum, at the tier that offers you invitations to lectures and admission to partner museums around the country. buy season tickets to a literary lecture series, symphony, or theater company. subscribe to lavishly printed photography journals. pay extra for online access to all of pbs’s arts programming. support the groups that support artists, and go see great work. (hey, maybe you can persuade family & friends to give something like this as a gift instead of that sweater you won’t wear!) buy experimental materials. one of the great benefits of a university education is that you’re required to take courses outside your area of expertise. a painter might have to take a printmaking or sculpture class. a novelist might take a poetry class. a violinist might learn a little percussion. in art school, you are forced to experiment. so do that! recently, i saw a richard dibenkorn exhibit at the portland art museum. i fell in love with his big, loose works on paper, and longed to go out and buy an enormous pad of paper and a bottle of ink. i just wanted to make big, loose, swirly, inky marks all over everything. if i was in art school, i could just run over to the studio and mess around with a bottle of ink or a lump of clay. but i wasn’t–so i ran over to the art supply store, bought some ink, and made a big glorious mess at home. turn yourself loose at the art supply store. if you have a sudden hankering to turn your novel into a screenplay, download scrivner and give it a go. if you’re a classically-trained actor and you find yourself longing to make silly video shorts, go get a tripod and give it a try. students approach their work with a spirit of experimentation, because the curriculum demands it, and because nothing’s set in concrete yet. you can do the same! and even this can be done on the cheap. don’t forget that musical instruments, easels, and unopened tubes of paint turn up regularly on craigslist and ebay. some artists hold swap meets to trade lightly-used gear and tools. libraries are now making everything from 3-d printers to welding equipment available to their patrons. in conclusion…none of this is free. it’s just cheaper than an mfa. it’s also not over in two years. this is a blueprint for a lifelong education in the arts, paid on the installment plan. i’m three decades away from college and i’m still taking classes. it still takes commitment, curiosity, community, and a lesson plan. it just happens to be a lesson plan of your own making. kopp sisters on the march! posted by amy stewart on may 30, 2019 in fiction, kopp sisters advance copies are turning up out in the real world! the fifth kopp sisters novel won’t be out until september, but you you can enter to win advance copies all summer long on goodreads (add it to your to-read shelf to be notified), and if you are a librarian, bookseller, or book reviewer, you can request a copy on netgalley. oh, and i’ll have some extra copies to give away through my newsletter, too. « older entries subscribe to my newsletter monthly missives on the creative process, cocktails, art, and books. read my books copyright © 2012-2020 amy stewart | website designed by simplesite.guru