skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about what is: ip address? ip stands for “internet protocol,” and any computer or device that is connected to the internet will have its own unique address or “ip address.” ip addresses are sometimes called “quads” because they are written in a series of four numbers separated by periods or dots. for example, the ip address for www.wordpress.org is “198.143.164.252.” if you typed that ip address into your browser, you would then be taken directly to the wordpress.org website. ip addresses are not just for websites. in fact, every single device that connects to the internet has its own unique ip address, including mobile phones, smart televisions, voice assistants, and tablets. because there are billions of these addresses, they are written according to a standard known as ipv6. originally, the ipv4 standard was used to create ip addresses. however, ipv4 can only handle around four billion different ip addresses, so the new ipv6 standard was created that can handle trillions of different ip addresses. the old ipv4 standard simply assigned numbers in groups of four, which could occasionally conflict with other, existing ip addresses. ipv6, however, ensures that there are no conflicts by requiring that all ip addresses can be written in hexadecimal notation. for example, wordpress’s ip address of “198.143.164.252” is in the ipv4 notation. the ipv6 version would be written as “ff00:4a2b::1fff.” ip address can either be public or private. public ip addresses can be accessed by any device on the internet. private ip addresses, on the other hand, can only be accessed from inside a local network. for a local network, the ip addresses are assigned by the dynamic host configuration protocol (dhcp) which is usually executed by a router. ip address can also either be static (unchanging) or dynamic (changing every time you connect to the internet). some people choose to use a vpn (virtual private network) in order to spoof their ip address to unlock content on websites such as netflix or to prevent people from tracking them online. the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts jamie my name is jamie spencer and i have spent the past 5 years building money making blogs. after growing tired of the 9-5, commuting and never seeing my family i decided that i wanted to make some changes and launched my first blog. since then i have launched lots of successful niche blogs and after selling my survivalist blog i decided to teach other people how to do the same. latest posts by jamie (see all) interview – cameron james from anymail finder - march 26, 2020 the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews - march 25, 2020 how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old - march 19, 2020 useful wordpress guides wordpress glossary terms how to install wordpress how to delete a wordpress blog wordpress.com vs wordpress.org wordpress website checklist how to speed up wordpress learn how to use wordpress like a pro wordpress security best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub