start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising productivity smartcut advertising last updated on february 11, 2020 what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email if you have so many things to do that you often find yourself struggling to finish projects and tasks and move on to other stuff, you’re certainly not alone. studies show that over 20 percent of the adult population put off or avoid doing certain tasks by allowing themselves to be overtaken by distractions.[1] so what is procrastination? and what can you do to prevent procrastination? in this article, i am going to explain to youwhy procrastination is so difficult to beat and how you can stop procrastinating once and for all by following a step-by-step guide. but first, you need to understand how procrastination happens. table of contents what is procrastination? the challenge of getting over procrastination how to stop procrastinating (step-by-step guide) 1. identify your triggers: the 5 types of procrastinator 2. face your triggers and get rid of them 3. take planned breaks 4. reward yourself 5. keep track of your time in a smart way the bottom line more about fighting procrastination what is procrastination? piers steel, the author of the book the procrastination equation: how to stop putting things off and start getting stuff done, defines procrastination in this way:[2] “procrastination is to voluntarily delay an intended course of action despite expecting to be worse off for the delay.” in other words, procrastination is doing more pleasurable things in place of less pleasurable ones. the end result is that important tasks are put off to a later time. this comic is one of the typical examples of procrastination: the challenge of getting over procrastination human beings have limited self-control. dr. roy baumeister, a psychologist from florida state university, has been studying self-control and he has found that just like any muscles, human’s self-control is a limited resource that can quickly become exhausted.[3] when self-control is close to being depleted, human tend to choose what’s more pleasurable– the immediate procrastinated tasks instead of the actual works. at its core, procrastination is an avoidance strategy. procrastinators choose to do something else instead of doing what they need to do because it’s much easier to choose pleasure over pain. in short, procrastination is so difficult to beat because it is a battle against human’s natural enemy, a human weakness that is in-born. how to stop procrastinating (step-by-step guide) despite the fact that it’s human nature to seek for immediate rewards and procrastinate, here i have a step-by-step guide for you to follow so as to stop procrastinating. advertising 1. identify your triggers: the 5 types of procrastinator identifying the type of procrastination you personally experience is an essential step for you to fix the problem at its root. take a look at this flowchart here to find out what type of procrastinator you are: which type of procrastinator are you? let’s take a look at the triggers for your procrastination type: perfectionist being perfect is the pleasure perfectionists want. but often this leads to them being too scared to show any imperfections. because of this, they frequently fail to complete things, as they’re forever seeking the perfect timing or approach. tasks end up never being completed, because in the eyes of the perfectionist, things are never perfect enough. instead of finishing something, perfectionists get caught up in a never-ending cycle of additions, edits, and deletions. ostrich an ostrich prefers to stay in the dreaming stage. that way, they don’t have to work for real, or deal with any negativity or stress. dreaming gives this type of people a false sense of achievement, as in their minds, they envision big, ambitious plans. unfortunately for them, these plans will most likely stay as dreams, and they’ll never accomplish anything truly worthwhile. self-saboteur a self-saboteur has bought into the line that ‘by doing nothing, bad things won’t happen.’ in reality, self-saboteurs have developed a fear of making mistakes or doing anything wrong. their way to avoid these mishaps, is to do nothing at all. in the end, they may make few mistakes – but they also see few accomplishments. daredevil daredevils are those who believe that deadlines can push them to do better. instead of having a schedule to complete their work – they prefer to enjoy time doing their own thing before the deadline comes around. it’s most likely an unconscious thing, but daredevils evidently believe that starting early will sacrifice their time for pleasure. this is reinforced in their minds and feelings, by the many times they manage to get away with burning the midnight oil. often they sacrifice the quality of their work because of rushing it. advertising chicken chickens lack the ability to prioritize their work. they do what they feel like they should do, rather than thinking through what they really need to do. prioritizing tasks is a step that takes extra time, so chicken will feel it’s not worth it. because of this, they usually end up doing a lot of effortless tasks that don’t contribute much to a project. they’re incessantly busy on low-impact tasks, but seem oblivious to urgent, high-impact tasks. 2. face your triggers and get rid of them whether it’s fear of failure, overwhelming feelings, avoidance or convincing yourself you’re just too busy to get something done, you can improve your ability to be productive by eliminating your procrastination triggers. for perfectionists, re-clarify your goals much of the time procrastination tendencies form simply because we’ve outgrown our goals. we’re ever-changing and so are our wants in life. try looking over your goals and ask yourself if they’re still what you want. take time out to regroup and ask yourself what you really want to achieve: what steps do you need to take? is what you’re currently doing reflecting what you want? what do you need to change? write things down, scribble them out and rewrite. for ostriches, do the difficult tasks first even if you feel you’re not a morning person, the beginning of the day is when your brain is most productive. use this window of time to get the more difficult stuff done. if you leave your difficult tasks to later, you’re much more likely to put it off because you’re tired and lack motivation. finishing lots of simple tasks at the beginning of the day such as reading all the new emails only gives you a false sense of being productive. for self-saboteurs, write out a to-do (and a not–to-do) list each day writing things down is powerful and psychologically increases your need to get things done. each day, make a habit of creating a list of the tasks you know you’ll try and avoid. by doing this, it brings these ‘difficult’ tasks to your mind’s attention instead of keeping them locked away somewhere in your avoidance mode. remember, think how satisfying and productive it feels to cross of a completed task. advertising for daredevils, create a timeline with deadlines it’s common to have a deadline for a goal which seems like a good idea. but this is basically an open invitation for procrastination. if it’s a self-created deadline with no pressure, we tend to justify pushing it back each time it comes into sight and feel we haven’t yet done ‘enough’ to get there. create a bigger timeline then within that, establish deadlines along the way. the beauty of this comes when each deadline completion is dependent on the next. it keeps you on track and keeps you accountable for being in alignment with the overall timeline. for chickens, break tasks into bite-sized pieces a lot of the time procrastination comes from overwhelming thoughts. if something feels too big to tackle and we don’t know where to start, it feels like a struggle. this is also true if our goal is too vague and lacking direction. break down larger tasks into smaller ones and turn them into daily or weekly goals. smaller steps may seem like the slower approach to achieving a goal, but it often leads you much more quickly to where you want to be due to the powerful momentum you get going. 3. take planned breaks the human brain isn’t designed to work continuously on the same task and this could be a reason for procrastination. make sure you take regular, structured breaks away from your task so that you can come back refreshed and ready to be more productive. a break as short as 5 minutes is enough to keep your mind sharp and wards off fatigue. i recommend you to use the pomodoro time tracker. it is a great tool to help you take breaks at set intervals. simply start the 25-minute timer, and follow the prompts. 4. reward yourself it’s important to acknowledge and reward yourself for achieving even the small tasks. it creates a sense of motivation and releases those feel-good, productive emotions that spur you on to achieve even more. make your reward proportional to the task you completed so getting a bite-sized task done gets you a cup of your favourite coffee or snack. then plan a weekend away or fun activity for the bigger stuff. advertising personally i try to make staying focus more fun by using the app forest. it turns productivity into a game. in the game, you can plant a virtual tree at the beginning of your work time. if you maintain focus for the duration of the timer, you’ll grow a tree to add to your forest. it’s rewarding when you can eventually grow a forest. 5. keep track of your time in a smart way if you want to prevent the bad habit of procrastination from coming back, keep track of the time you spend every day. by having a clear idea of where you spend your time, you can always review your productivity and know which areas to improve. it’s not easy to keep track of every minute you spend throughout the day so i recommend you to use the app rescue time. it gets you a categorized breakdown of how you spend your time and helps you to find out how much time you’re really on-task. you can even label activities as productive and non-productive so as to block your biggest distractions. the bottom line procrastination exists for many reasons and only you know for yourself what these triggers are. understanding what procrastination really is and the source of your avoidance tendencies is important in moving them out of the way and help you start the productivity momentum. make procrastination under your control! more about fighting procrastination 8 dreadful effects of procrastination that can destroy your life 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation 30 best procrastination quotes to get you back to work reference [1] ^ american psychology association: psychology of procrastination: why people put off important tasks until the last minute [2] ^ psychological bulletin: the nature of procrastination: a meta-analytic and theoretical review of quintessential self-regulatory failure [3] ^ cal newport: the science of procrastination: researchers tackle willpower and our ability to control it share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 30 best procrastination quotes to get you back to work 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation to be more productive, never do this to start your morning advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.