wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » what is the difference between posts vs. pages in wordpress what is the difference between posts vs. pages in wordpress last updated on april 9th, 2019 by editorial staff 372 shares share tweet share pin often wordpress beginners get confused between posts and pages. by default, wordpress comes with two content types: posts and pages. as a beginner, you are probably wondering what’s the difference between posts vs pages? they seem to look similar in the wordpress dashboard as well as on the website. readers often ask us: why do i need both? when should i use posts? when should i use pages? in this article, we will explain the difference between posts vs. pages in wordpress. what are posts in wordpress? posts are blog content listed in a reverse chronological order (newest content on top). you will see posts listed on your blog page. if you are using wordpress as a blog, then you will end up using posts for the majority of your website’s content. you can add and edit your wordpress posts from the ‘posts’ menu in your dashboard. here is how add new post screen looks. due to their reverse chronological order, your posts are meant to be timely. older posts are archived based on month and year. as the posts gets older, the user has to dig deeper to find them. you have the option to organize your posts based on categories and tags. because wordpress posts are published with time and date in mind, they are syndicated through the rss feeds. this allows your readers to be notified of the most recent post update via rss feeds. bloggers can use the rss feeds to deliver email broadcasts through services like constant contact, aweber or mailchimp. you can create a daily and weekly newsletter for your audience to subscribe to. the very timely nature of posts make it extremely social. you can use one of the many social sharing plugins to allow your users to share your posts in social media networks like facebook, twitter, linkedin, pinterest etc. posts encourage conversation. they have a built-in comment feature that allows users to comment on a particular topic. by default, comments, pingbacks, and trackbacks are enabled. you can go to your settings » discussion to turn off comments on older posts if you like. wordpress posts usually have the name of the author and published/updated date. the best example of a wordpress post may be this article which you are reading now. go to the top, and you can see the post category ‘beginner’s guide’ above the article title. below the title, there is the last updated date, author’s name, and social share buttons. after the main article content, there is the comments section. you cannot usually find these on a page. now that you know what are posts, let’s take a look at pages and how they are different. what are pages in wordpress? pages are static “one-off” type content such as your about page, privacy policy, contact page, etc. while the wordpress database stores the published date of the page, pages are timeless entities. for example, your about page is not suppose to expire. sure you can go back and make updates to it, but chances are you will not have about page 2012, about page 2013 etc. because there is no time and date tied to pages, they are not included in your rss feeds by default. you can add and edit pages in wordpress from ‘pages’ menu in your dashboard. here is how add new page screen looks like: pages are not meant to be social in most cases thus do not include social sharing buttons. for example, you probably don’t want others to tweet your privacy policy page in most cases. similarly, pages also don’t include comments. you don’t want users to comment on your contact page or your legal disclaimers page. there is an option to enable comments, however, it is disabled by default for your wordpress pages. unlike posts, pages are hierarchical by nature. for example, you can have subpages or child pages within a page. you can easily turn a page into subpage by choosing a parent page from page attributes when editing a page. a key example of this in action would be our blueprint page. this feature allows you to organize your pages together, and even assign a custom template to them. wordpress by default comes with a feature that allows you create custom page templates using your theme. this allows developers to customize the look of each page when necessary. in most themes, post and pages look the same. but when you are using your page to create a landing page or a gallery page, then the custom page templates feature comes in very handy. pages also have this archaic feature called ‘order’ which lets you customize the order of pages by assigning a number value to it. however, this feature is extended by plugins like simple page ordering that allows you to drag & drop the order of pages. wordpress pages vs. posts (key differences) to summarize, following are the key differences between posts vs pages in wordpress. posts are timely vs. pages are timeless. posts are social vs. pages are not. posts are organized using categories and tags vs. pages are hierarchical and can be organized as child and parent pages. posts are included in rss feed vs. pages are not. posts have author and published date vs pages do not. the differences we listed above may have exceptions. you can use plugins to extend the functionality of both content types. despite these differences, there are some similarities between pages and posts in wordpress. first, they are both used for publishing content. you can add text, images, forms, etc. to both posts and pages. there is featured image meta-field in both pages and posts. you can build a website without ever using posts or blogging features of wordpress. you can also make a business website with pages and a separate blog section for your news, announcements, and other articles. frequently asked questions following are some of the most frequently asked questions we have heard from our users about posts vs. pages, and how to properly use them in wordpress. 1. how many posts and/or pages can i have? you can have as many posts and/or pages that you want. there is no limit on the number of posts or pages that can be created. 2. are there any seo advantages to one or the other? search engines like content to be organized. timeless content is considered to be more important; however, there is a lot of priority given to the latest timely content. in short, there may be a difference, but as a beginner, you do not need to worry about it. focus on making your site organized for the user. to learn more, see our complete wordpress seo guide for beginners. 3. which pages i should create on my website or blog? it really depends on what kind of blog or website you are making. however, you may want to see our list of important pages for all websites. 4. can i switch posts to pages and vice versa? many beginners accidentally add content to posts when they actually wanted to create pages. similarly, some new bloggers may end up saving blog posts as pages. if you have just started out, then you can easily fix that by using the post type switcher plugin. for more details see our article on how to switch post types in wordpress. 5. are there other content types in wordpress besides posts and pages? yes, there are. however, these other default content types include attachments, revisions, and navigation menus which are normally not used the same way as posts and pages. wordpress also allows developers to create their own custom post types. this feature is used by plugins to create additional content types in wordpress. for example, if you are running a woocommerce store, then you will see a ‘products’ post type in your wordpress admin area. we hope this article helped you learn the difference between pages and posts in wordpress and how to use them. you may also want to see our list of important things to do after installing wordpress. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 372 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to start your own podcast (step by step) revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 115 commentsleave a reply spenser says: aug 2, 2019 at 6:52 am great stuff. just starting out with wp and this is exactly what i need. many useful links to other, equally useful, posts (or are they pages? – only kidding). really useful site – i have emailed myself the url. many thanks – please keep up the good work. ps – never left comments on a wp site before – so interested in seeing how this works. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 2, 2019 at 10:22 am glad you like our content reply dimarifi says: jul 2, 2019 at 8:44 pm thanks for this helpfull guid. but i have a question, for exemple this webpage : https://www.wpbeginner.com/category/beginners-guide/ its post or page? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jul 3, 2019 at 11:32 am that is an archive page, we’ve linked directly to the category and it is showing the archive for beginners guides which is styled the same as our posts page. reply acha mercy says: mar 27, 2019 at 12:14 pm thanks for clarifying me on this reply wpbeginner support says: mar 28, 2019 at 10:27 am you’re welcome reply mjkoroma says: mar 21, 2019 at 2:43 am hello, will i be able to use a website as both a blog and a ‘website’ simultaneously? i mean, if i would use pages and posts on a website, simultaneously… reply wpbeginner support says: mar 21, 2019 at 11:37 am you can certainly use those features together. we have an article that should help clear up some confusion here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/what-is-a-blog-and-how-is-it-different-from-a-website-explained/ reply billy says: jan 12, 2019 at 2:53 pm product page: posts or pages? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 14, 2019 at 1:53 pm that varies from one plugin to another, it is normally a page listing a custom post type if i understand what you’re asking correctly. reply joljols says: dec 17, 2018 at 4:03 am i was wondering if the articles on wpbeginner are posts or pages as they have a page-like url but most features of a blog post. also, many of the articles are often updated over time to keep the contents of the article up to date. how do you deal with those updates and making sure readers know about them? the reason i am asking is because i am also writing a list of articles with coding tips/tutorials and am wondering if i should write them as posts or pages on my wordpress site. i hope you can give me advice! reply wpbeginner support says: dec 17, 2018 at 3:40 pm hi, we use posts to publish most of our articles. reply charles says: apr 20, 2018 at 5:33 am doesn’t that mean, we should always use pages if we want a unique design for the mega content we are going to create? otherwise, post seems to have a lot of limitation of how the overall content visual to be structured. reply stephanie says: mar 30, 2018 at 1:40 pm i have to translate my content across multiple languages – so my current blog is being housed in pages vs posts. if i move my blog over to posts – can i translate that out? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 30, 2018 at 7:39 pm hi stephanie, you can translate your wordpress content by using a wordpress multilingual plugin. reply bruce says: feb 6, 2018 at 3:31 am hello and thanks for the great site. i’ve been running some wp sites for a few years and i always come to wpbeginner for quality and concise information. the sites i’ve built have been fine with static pages but one client (my wife) wants to add a blog to her martial arts site. how do we make something that looks like the blog page on this site? i understand how to create the post, and can add it to a menu, but do not know how to make a page with the chronological list of posts. is this a feature of the specific theme? i am using genesis and responsive. thanks again, i’m sure there’s an obvious solution that i’m overlooking. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 6, 2018 at 2:06 pm hi bruce, please see our guide on how to create a separate page for blog posts in wordpress. reply cherian says: aug 22, 2017 at 4:03 am i’m not sure i was doing wrong. please help. on my website, im publishing the same topic as post and page (so two urls has same topic, 1 page and 1 posts). any issues on that? or do i need to remove one of them? thanks. reply denish callos says: aug 5, 2017 at 11:59 am hi, i have been using wordpress for web development for a while now. i am starting a new tutorial site in wordpress. i am confused in writing tutorials as pages or posts. number of tutorials wil be huge. so should i publish tutorials as posts or pages.(please suggest me on this). and how do i include category name in permalink of pages suggestions will be highly appreciated. many thanks reply riana says: aug 14, 2017 at 9:53 pm i have a smiliar question. waiting for this to be answered. seems like no one has answered you yet so i’ll make my own decision based on the article. i would like each of my tutorials to be shared on social media and accept comments which would lead me to posts instead of pages. however, my tutorials cover many different themes and i feel like having a category list to the side with 5 billion different links will be a bit much. i also don’t like that they will be time and date stamped because they really aren’t blog posts but permanent pages on my site that most likely will never be changed or replicated. i guess i’ll just suck it up and go with posts. reply pogo says: sep 6, 2017 at 12:00 pm i say definitely use posts, and i’m almost certain that you can fill pages with certain types of posts to categorize them using the hierarchy of pages. reply zachary says: may 31, 2018 at 2:33 pm use a custom post type. setup a custom post type for your tutorials, specifically. that is the best setup, as it is clean and keeps your blog posts sepearate. pages are absolutely inferior in this use case, and most use cases. a good plugin for this is cpt ui (free). that mixed with advanced custom fields offers an incredible amount of customization and efficiency if used correctly. as for the many category issue. i recommend reading some guides on categories/tags. ideally, your categories should be few and broad, while your tags are many. with acf you can create new “category” type lists if needed, often not needed though. you can also depend on sub-categories a lot. having very broad parent categories, with their many child categories beneath. show the user only the child categories for their selected main category and they won’t have a large list to deal with. when they see the initial tutorial page you show them the parent categories only. there are many ways of achieving a user-friendly design through this. reply susan cunningham says: jul 27, 2017 at 1:09 pm i’m building a website with more or less timeless content. definitely not a blog with dates, etc.. so i could dispense with posts altogether? i have put pages on the top running menu bar. each page will have a bunch of sub-pages and those can have sub-pages (grandchild pages?). which will also dictate the urls, right? from the reply to the previous question, i gather the downside to that is that pages can’t be labeled with categories? downside of using posts,however, is that they can’t be grouped and sub-grouped under a page? in the past few days i’ve been wondering if those general content descriptors on the menu bar should be categories instead of pages. this reply to the previous question seems to point in that direction: “another way to do that is by creating templates for your categories.” but no … i’m going to have a mammoth informational/magazine type site and that would extremely limit the number of categories, seems to me. maybe that wouldn’t matter if the number of tags was kept limited, however. i’m not totally new to wordpress, since i use wordpess.com for a simple personal portfolio type site. so category name(s) will appear–usually on the top left corner–of a post. but they won’t appear at all on a page? whew! sorry to sound so confusing. (well, obviously, i’m confused!). can you just answer the first question: can i dispense with posts altogether? what are the disadvantages and advantages of that? i can’t be the first person with this question in mind. thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: jul 27, 2017 at 10:21 pm hi susan, you can dispense posts altogether and use pages with child pages to organize your site’s structure. you can add categories and tags to pages, if you want. reply terry yarham says: jun 11, 2017 at 3:57 pm from my static home page, there are blog post categories in the menu across the top. can i pin content to the top of the category archive page? regular pinning isn’t working for that. i have a lifestyle blog for my city. when someone goes to a category from the top menu (food, drink, shopping, etc.) i want them to see a short description (that will always be at the top), then see the blog posts that fall into that category as they scroll down. is there a way to do that? i’m using the bento theme. i’m game to change the categories across the top to pages so the content i want to always be seen would be there, but would i be able to get the posts to show up underneath? thanks for any help i can get. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 11, 2017 at 5:32 pm hey terry, there are multiple ways to do that. for example, you can add the content you want to be displayed as category descriptions. another way to do that is by creating templates for your categories. you can add them by simply naming the file category-{category-slug}.php like category-news.php. reply julie gilmer says: may 22, 2017 at 12:31 pm i’m trying to organize a blog of my trips with pages for each day and pictures associated with those pages. is this possible in wordpress? reply wpbeginner support says: may 23, 2017 at 12:12 am hey julie, yes. in fact many travel writers use wordpress to share their journeys with photos, galleries, videos, text, and more. check out our guide on how to start a wordpress blog for step by step instructions on how to get started. reply mathew says: apr 28, 2017 at 9:44 am thanks i have just been cleared! reply civali says: mar 19, 2017 at 6:37 pm i confess i´m pretty confused about it. i actually don´t know deal with categories in a post. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2017 at 8:20 pm hi civali, please take a look at our guide on the difference between categories and tags. it will help you understand how to use categories for your posts. reply bastian says: mar 18, 2017 at 4:26 pm i wonder how to organize content like episode guides for a tv show (that has been broadcasted years ago) with a kind of scientific interpretation of it. i think it’s very much timeless content, since it’s no actual show anymore and i don’t want to have comments on it. it should be the definitive article on the net to the subject. so, should i write my big episode guide with plot and interpretation as a page and just put a post on my blog like “new episode guide for show – episode x season y” with a link to the page? i have to admit it was hard to decide against a wiki because i don’t think i have timely content. but a blog seems to be more like a reflection of my personal opinion and more conversational and entertaining than a “dry” wiki text. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2017 at 8:39 pm hi bastian, there are plenty of ways to organize this in wordpress. for example, you can use categories for each season, and create a new post for each episode in that season. you can use tags to assign different characters, topics, and themes that came up during that particular episode. you can also create a custom post type. reply bastian says: mar 20, 2017 at 3:31 pm thank you very much. sounds interesting. somehow i think it just doesn’t feel right to use pages for articles. all the fine features like widgets, sharing etc. have to be added through plugins while posts have it all embedded. atm i tend to use posts, because it just feels right. it feels like the way, wordpress should be used. what i like on pages in a strange way is, that all these distractions like widgets, sharing etc. are missing. the content area is wider (in my current theme), so for now: i start using posts but not sure if it will always stay this way. i will just have an open mind and keep experimenting. time will tell. reply sam victor says: dec 15, 2016 at 1:20 am hi all, i just understand the difference between the page and posts. thanks buddy. reply mark cross says: dec 7, 2016 at 4:43 pm as a beginner this little tutorial was helpful. i was getting into a default blog when trying to create a website. i hope to get to the point of moving in-between the website, dashboard, preview, publish and other tools that word press offers. so time to start learning. reply forhad says: nov 3, 2016 at 4:39 am every post must be in a page but a page contain many article. reply sarath says: sep 17, 2016 at 1:47 am please how did you enter meta keywords in a site used in wordpress reply rita says: sep 14, 2016 at 6:06 am can i have pages that display different posts on one blog? i mean to have one page with news (updated daily) and one page articles (updated weekly). is it possible to do it on wordpress. should i create a custom post type? reply monjur says: jul 30, 2016 at 12:45 pm thanks for an awesome article … all of my confusion about post vs page has been removed by this one article. reply alexander okpara says: jul 21, 2016 at 7:08 pm please i want to inquire on how to make different blog pages for different posts reply shraddha shakya says: jun 27, 2016 at 1:10 am hello ! i am new to wordpress and recently i have started ablog for celebrity gossips. i have written all the contents in pages and then linked it with the post in homepage.i dont want post to be shown in homepage .so i posted a post and then linked them with pages .but the problem is my pages arenot showing up in google.only posts are shown . so , is it that pages arenot shown in google?? my page is half a month old , so that maybe a reason for google to not show up but then a post which was just 1 day old showed up .so it worried me . so inorder to show up in google , which one is better , pages or post ? reply pankaj choudhary says: jul 6, 2016 at 4:47 am please check your front page code and wp reading setting choice a static page in reading setting of wordpress. reply subhendu says: apr 3, 2016 at 2:55 pm what is the difference between comment and post in wordpress?please help. reply roy randolph says: may 25, 2016 at 9:44 pm a comment is the discussion thread that you can (if you wish) have for a page or a post. in other words you are commenting on a blog “post” for an example. basically the same thing you are doing now, you are commenting by asking a question. hope that helps. reply ray foucher says: feb 14, 2016 at 10:47 pm i’m new to wp, have just started a wp site and have a top menu link “articles” which will link to a page listing all my articles (static content) with short descriptions of each and links to an individual page for each article. the person hosting my site insists posts are the way to go rather than pages. i am used to using html for other sites and have no problem with building the links. i like the idea of being able to have my own descriptions and order for the articles list and fail to see the advantages of posts for this. any insights? if i used posts i belief i could assign them to an articles category to keep them together but could i then arrange them in my preferred order and write or change my own descriptions? reply janz says: jan 30, 2016 at 2:53 pm i have started to write on pages. how do i link one page to the next in chronological order on each page published? for example, in posts, there is a link to the previous and the next post. i cannot find this in pages. can you help please? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 31, 2016 at 5:08 pm please take a look at our guide on the difference between posts vs pages in wordpress. you may also want to check out our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. reply neil henderson says: jan 4, 2016 at 6:37 am hi, i am developing a holiday site and using wordpress. i am having property style pages and then also looking at having category pages (hotels, cottages, campsites). i have been considering the following format: property pages as custom post types category pages with ability to insert category lists (so can format a little more) i was just wondering as seo is absolutely critical for this project to work would i be better to do the property pages as “pages” and if so is it possible to add any kind of taxonomy to a page so that i can pull them through to a category page? thanks neil reply akhil raj shrivastava says: dec 11, 2015 at 12:44 am hi all any one please attention in my index,php i have a menu, a banner , after that slogan , slogan some content regarding site and three content regarding read more, and a footer option , problem is this . any how read content is not published, or not shown in index.php my i created read more in post option. any one understand this where i m wrong, reply rados says: dec 9, 2015 at 6:16 pm please be so kind to help me invert the order of appearance of new sections in a page – i want new sections to appear on top, not on the bottom of the page. many thanks in advance! reply ian player says: nov 12, 2015 at 9:07 pm thanks for a very interesting article. it would be *really* helpful too to hear the reasons as to why you chose to write this article as a post rather than a page. thanks! reply mikey says: jan 4, 2016 at 7:36 pm what a great point! this is very much timeless or “evergreen” content. i suppose the main reason for publishing it as a post is that the author wants us to share it! as i have just done on twitter. reply john morris says: jul 10, 2016 at 6:49 am if i read the article correctly you wanted to receive comments and posts enable that more easily than pages. also this content may change as new releases alter functionality. just a thought reply pat says: nov 12, 2015 at 12:15 pm this is a useful and very clear post. but it doesn’t address the one issue about posts and pages that is really confusing me, as a wp newbie. if i wish to add products to a wp site, should they be added as pages or posts? in my case, the products in question are books by various authors. if i list them as posts then website visitors can use categories to filter them by author. however i cannot see how to add author photo and biographical info to the same result page. and if i list then as pages (so that i can have a section with author photo and biographical note, etc, i cannot see how to generate and filter (through categories) the results so that x author’s page will show only x author’s books. i have even tried a number of dedicated book and ecommerce themes, but none of them seems to provide for what i thought would be a basic ingredient. am i missing something? thanks in any case for the good work! reply wpbeginner support says: nov 12, 2015 at 12:44 pm you may want to check our guide on why do you need a custom post type or taxonomy in wordpress. reply prash says: nov 1, 2015 at 1:57 am how to apper recent posts on top ??? reply shraddhanshu shekhar says: jan 24, 2016 at 10:46 pm write a post> see setting in bottom, press immediately and decide on which date & time you want to show your post is published. then publish. latest post is shown on top. reply randa says: oct 28, 2015 at 2:10 am now i guess that i’m commenting now on a post not a page !!! reply wpbeginner support says: oct 28, 2015 at 10:23 am yes. reply patricia says: oct 10, 2015 at 10:59 pm awesome! short and to the point. i spent all night going through the blog support site with no answers… only to have this clearly explained in a less than 2 minute video! reply wpbeginner support says: oct 11, 2015 at 12:12 am glad to help. thanks for the feedback. reply hugh boyde says: sep 26, 2015 at 4:49 am this article is very useful. i have a question though. i have been experimenting with putting categories in the menu as described, in order to have certain posts appear on a single display if you click on a certain menu item. this seems to work except that the posts then appear without titles, dates or anywhere for a reader to leave a comment. is there a way to get these details to display please? reply suraj says: jul 29, 2015 at 4:40 pm hey its a great article . i just wanted to know one thing that if the sites like, use a page or post to give in contents i am really confused because there are separate plugins that allow a user to post like feature on a page. reply geri says: jun 3, 2015 at 10:50 pm im a total noob at wp.. can i ask how do i add categories in the posts? for eg. baking and homestuffswedo i understand that posts are categorize in different timings so i hope i am able to categorize them in different themes. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 4, 2015 at 1:35 pm please see our guide on categories and tags in wordpress. reply keith gardner says: may 27, 2015 at 11:38 pm i don’t understand why on earth you would not want to have a template for a post, just as you would for a page. i have a website built mostly from pages, and we are now trying to enable blogging, and it refuses to play nicely because of there being no way to specify template for posts. the site is based on twenty eleven. some pages (using “default template”) are full-width, some (using “sidebar template”) are three-column. in the three column mode, there’s a “main sidebar” on the left and “extra sidebar” on the right. i’ve created a “posts page” for my blog, and this too looks fine. but when i click to view one of the posts, i go to a full-width format, and the content from the main sidebar is laid directly on top of the content from the post. it’s not in a column to the left of the blog content, it’s sitting right on top of it. at the end of the post, there’s the extra sidebar content shoved way down to the bottom. i have pulled what little hair i have left out over this, and i am no further along than i was days ago. anyone able to provide me with links to ideas, solutions, workarounds, similar situations? anything? and also, back to my original question, if this is a “feature” rather than an “oversight,” why on earth would people want it this way? i’m missing something on this. thanks. reply walid says: apr 4, 2015 at 7:42 pm hi, thanks for the explanation. may i know if this article is a post or a page? thanks w reply wpbeginner support says: apr 4, 2015 at 8:23 pm it’s a post. reply wpbeginner staff says: nov 11, 2014 at 11:53 pm perhaps what you need is categories not pages. lets say you have a news site and you want posts to appear on local news, sports, opinion pages. you can do that by creating categories local news, sports, opinion. when writing a post simply select the category you want to file that post into. you can also add categories to appear in your site’s navigation menu. simply go to appearance > menus and add categories to your navigation menu. now if someone clicks on sports they will go to the page where all your sports related posts will appear. reply lauren says: jan 21, 2018 at 1:04 pm this is on track with my question. i have it so my posts go in the correct category pages, but once in there the entire post shows up. is there a way to display only a preview or grid after selecting a category page? for news articles i see how this layout makes sense. i am posting recipes and would like my readers to be able to view a grid of all my posts and then selecting individually. when i tried using the post grid plug-in, it made all of my posts, regardless of category, show up. reply mariond says: nov 9, 2014 at 7:42 pm how on earth does one “post” on a particular page? add new post makes it go to your website’s lala land. there must be a way to add a post to only the page you want it visible on. what am i missing? i’m getting really frustrated with wordpress. it seems not at all intuitive or user friendly. reply justin young says: jan 2, 2015 at 7:39 pm add post category to menu. add the posts you want displayed to that page. reply wpbeginner staff says: oct 20, 2014 at 10:01 pm you should use categories for sorting your posts. reply erika says: oct 19, 2014 at 2:15 pm thanks the explanation is clear. however i believe wordpress is complicated and not logical. i would like to use it as a travel blog, so i would have a page for each country and of course i would like to be able to see my post under the country however the post does not show under the given country page??? can you explain? reply chandu says: may 19, 2015 at 6:03 am erica,i have the same doubt while iam building a travel website,can you please email me with details how many pages and posts you added in your site which one is more seo friendly. please share the hierarchy on pages > posts reply syed balkhi says: oct 8, 2014 at 9:16 am you can try to hide posts from your template and remove it from the seo plugin. reply capain pat says: oct 8, 2014 at 4:48 pm dear syed you have totally lost me. as per my post above i have created a whole site with “posts” instead of “pages”. your reply is not clear. reply capain pat says: oct 6, 2014 at 7:19 pm thanks for this article. i have built a few word press web sites but am a tad confused. i chose “posts” way back over “pages”. not sure why. but i notice that google shows the date of the post in snippet preview. this worries me as my posts are timeless and not specific to any particular time. i would prefer not to see the date of the article – i am concerned that in five years time people may not read my article in preference to a “page” that shows no date. i’d appreciate any suggestions on changing this and the benefits or dangers in doing so. thanks. pat reply mark says: mar 18, 2014 at 7:25 am a very clear explanation of the difference between posts and page reply joyce says: feb 25, 2014 at 4:27 am i’m new to wp and to your site; great info. i now have a much greater understanding about the difference between the two subject elements (i.e. posts, pages). still, though, my issue seems to fall in between all the great information i have read here (and a couple other sites), that being, what’s best way to handle my old articles (real, full-length articles) from my microsoft frontpage site. there is not that many, so manual work doesn’t bother me. i want them to remain readily available for readers. it seems that creating a new “post” for each article wasn’t correct, as, seemingly, that would be presenting them as “fresh or new” and even giving them some new date. i stopped what i began, due to uncertainty. – i set my genesis lifestyle pro theme to have a static page and “posts” goes to a blog. i created a new page – not post – (e.g. “12 old articles bucket”) to hold the 12 links for the individual articles. as for the 12 articles, i created a new page (not a post) for each, and then, copied/pasted plain text to each. i opened “12 old articles bucket” and linked to each article. i added “12 old articles bucket” to the primary navigation menu. technically, is it wrong to place the text directly onto the pages (12) as i’ve done? for one thing, there seemed to be no way of adding categories or tags by doing it this way. i’ve read about articles vs. posts, migrating from one system to another, etc., but this issue seems to fall through the cracks. i’m hoping to “post” all “new” articles of this category as a blog. sorry about the length. thanks. reply david scoggin says: feb 19, 2014 at 1:06 am thanks for the article. i’m still not clear on this: when you create a new page you get a new menu that opens that page. is it the same with posts? when you create a new post do you get a new menu that opens that post? or are posts on pages? when you want a blog “page” you want a post, not a page, right? is every new blog entry a new post or are they all contained within one post? thanks reply « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.