barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up answers what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest savannah lyons writer shares share tweet pin coconut oil has become a game changer for us humans. there are so many uses for this supplement, it’s like the swiss-army knife of oils! you can cook with it, use it in your hair, apply it as a moisturizer and lip balm, and take it as a digestive aid. if we can benefit from using coconut oil inside and out, what about the pup? so let’s get straight to it – is coconut oil as good for dogs as it is for humans? yes! coconut oil is a wonderful addition to your fur pal’s diet, skin care, and beauty routine! you can add it to their food or use it to pamper your furry friend with a bit of a massage. a little goes a long way, but there’s a long list of applications and results. let’s break down the myriad uses and benefits for your pack! table of contents what are the benefits? where to buy coconut oil? how do i use coconut oil for my dog? diy dog shampoo don’t forget about barkbox! what are the benefits? coconut oil is 90% saturated fat that can help improve the condition of your pup’s skin, coat, and boost their immune system. the medium chain triglycerides inside of coconut oil can give your dog a boost of energy and mcts are labeled as good fats that have the anti-bacterial and anti-fungal lauric acid. digesting coconut oil is known to kickstart the metabolic system, calm inflammation, encourages normal thyroid functions, and helps strengthen bones. used topically, this oil can soothe hot spots and bites, moisturize dry skin, and neutralizes dog odor. for pups more worried about their image, coconut oil helps with weight loss and promotes a shiny coat! where to buy coconut oil? coconut oil is in almost every grocery and supplement store, and it’s also popping up in pet stores. be sure to take the time to read the labels for unrefined coconut oil (aka virgin coconut oil) and, if you can find it, cold-pressed – meaning the oil was processed very quickly after the coconuts were chopped. the zesty paws coconut oil (160z) is labeled for dogs only and can be found on amazon.com for $19.97 for a single purchase. meanwhile, nature’s way coconut oil (16oz) can be found at most grocery stores for a much cheaper $8.09. finally, viva natural’s organic extra virgin coconut oil (16oz) is a great middle ground, and available in stores and online for auto shipments, starting at $10.99. how do i use coconut oil for my dog? with all of the ways to use coconut oil, you’re probably wondering what you should try first. adding coconut oil to your dog’s food is an easy way to get this supplement into their system. this supplement can be administered as liquid, capsules, or (when the temperature is low enough) in the form of paste. you can serve it to your furry one straight up or mix it into their food as meal topper. it’s best to start small when introducing new elements to your pup’s diet. your vet knows best and can give a more precise suggested dose, but generally a good place to start is with a quarter of a teaspoon once a week. slowly increase to a full teaspoon per 10 pounds of body weight once a week. although coconut oil is organic and non-toxic, keep an eye on your pooch for any changes in their skin, coat, and stool. if you pup’s stool become loose or greasy, adjust the dose by reducing the amount. don’t overwhelm your pup with too much of a good thing. moderation is key! using coconut oil topically can be done in various methods. you can apply a small amount of oil to your hands and give your pooch a massage to add a bit of moisture to dry skin and cracked paws, soothe hot spots and itchy patches, and to add shine to a their coat. coconut oil is not a quickly absorbed oil. be sure to have a towel on hand to wipe your pup down before they get back on the rug or couch! you can also add coconut oil to bath day. put a few drops of oil in your pup’s shampoo or conditioner for a boost of hydration and a shinier coat. if you’re looking to experiment a bit, try your hand at making your own dog shampoo with coconut oil! here’s a simple diy recipe to use for inspiration! diy dog shampoo ingredients: 1 cup dr. bronner’s pure castile soap 1 tablespoon coconut oil 1/4 cup apple cider vinegar ¾ cup distilled water 2-3 drop pure essential oil (optional) how to make it 1. pool all ingredients together in plastic bottle with cap. 2.shake all of the ingredients together and use! store in a cool dry place between baths. just shake up the bottle when you’re ready to use again! don’t forget about barkbox! now that your pup’s coat is shiny and their skin is well moisturized, it’s time to play! don’t forget pups love toys and treats. barkbox makes it easier than ever to get that tail wagging. each month a box comes to your door with two innovative toys, two bags of all-natural treats, and a drool-worthy chew – and every month is a creative new theme! with the the ability to tailor the box to your dog’s size, needs, and playing style, barkbox loves to help pup parents spoil their unique pup! if you have any questions, feel free to contact the knowledgeable happy team members at barkbox.com or email [email protected]. comments poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up savannah lyons writer labrador retriever breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts cavalier king charles spaniel breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts french bulldog breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go