skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about what is a subdomain? when you own a website, it comes with a unique address like “wordpress.org” that no other website in the world can use. this is also called your domain name. when you first install wordpress on a specific url, everything will be running on that domain. however, it is possible to split up different parts of your wordpress site into different “addresses,” all of which are “under” or part of the domain. therefore, some people refer to the first domain as the “top domain” or “top-level domain.” just as you might expect, a subdomain is a smaller subset domain underneath the main domain. the subdomain acts like a completely separate website, but it is still hosted at the same “place” on the internet. for a simple blog, you probably won’t need a subdomain, but more complex websites can benefit from subdomains in order to keep things more organized. for instance, if you have a top-level domain called “www.myawesomeblog.com” that’s free for the general public to use, you could set up “vip.myawesomeblog.com” as a subdomain for paying customers that allows them to access exclusive content. the most common use of a subdomain is for e-commerce websites. the catalog of products usually exists on the top-level domain, but the payment part exists on a subdomain because it requires more sophisticated settings in order to transfer payment information securely. another common use of subdomains that is being phased out is when you have a mobile version of your website that’s different than the one for desktop computers. in previous years, “www.myawesomeblog.com” would have been designed for full-screen desktop computers while “m.myawesomeblog.com” would have been optimized for mobile devices. this is no longer recommended, however, as advances in adaptive programming allow top-level domains to automatically adjust to the user’s computer or device. the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts jamie my name is jamie spencer and i have spent the past 5 years building money making blogs. after growing tired of the 9-5, commuting and never seeing my family i decided that i wanted to make some changes and launched my first blog. since then i have launched lots of successful niche blogs and after selling my survivalist blog i decided to teach other people how to do the same. latest posts by jamie (see all) interview – cameron james from anymail finder - march 26, 2020 the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews - march 25, 2020 how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old - march 19, 2020 useful wordpress guides wordpress glossary terms how to install wordpress how to delete a wordpress blog wordpress.com vs wordpress.org wordpress website checklist how to speed up wordpress learn how to use wordpress like a pro wordpress security best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub