 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog how to choose what to blog about (with examples of viral headlines) written by: anya skrba (published on: june 19th, 2017 last updated: may 3rd, 2019) posted in: blogging 0 comment written by anya skrba choosing what to blog about or picking a niche for your blog can be easy or hard, depending on how you decide to go about it. the easy way would be to pick something that you like to write about. you can share a personal information by exploring hobbies, documenting your life, etc. but, it can be a bit trickier if you wish for your blog to make an impact and to draw attention to itself. if you want a quality blog that brings something new to the table and interesting to readers, then you will need to consider a lot of different things. you need to come up with a good strategy to make your content more visible. we assume that you already created your blog, and we are going to go in-depth on how you should choose what to blog about, and how to create posts that are going to have generic engagement. we are also going to provide you with some blog post examples that went viral to exemplify the points covered in this article. what are the goals of your blog? when we talk about goals for a particular blog, or reasons why someone is blogging, five different causes can be identified: blogging to attract a target audience. if you are passionate about a particular topic, and you only want to spark a discussion and exchange your ideas with other people online. in other words, using a blog as a forum. blogging to attract influencers. if you want to attract an audience and grow your user base, then you should create more profound content that online influencers can use. people will notice you as your content gets featured on a popular blog, and your user base or pool of subscribers can increase. blogging to rank higher in web searches. you can blog to make your website or online platform more visible. by using the right set of keywords and by getting quality external links, you can optimize your posts to target certain search queries. blogging to generate authority, and to inspire trust, loyalty and even evangelism. you can blog to prove that you can offer superior insight on the particular topic. in the process, you will build an audience that trusts your opinion about that niche. in other words, you do not share your point of view; you also educate people. blogging to inspire people to perform an action. you can also write to encourage users to buy something or to subscribe to a particular service. it all boils down to whether you are blogging to express yourself, for fun or blogging for profit, or all these combined. whatever cause you choose to be the driving force behind your blogging, you must be aware of what an individual blog post can do or should do. what an individual blog post should do blog posts are a means to an end. they are designed to help you achieve your goals as a blogger, but a single post cannot be used as support for all your blogging causes at once. a single blog post should do one of four things: help readers accomplish their goals. if a user is researching what product they should buy, the blog post should recommend the best course of action. it can also be a tutorial that explains how to fix a problem or how to craft something. inform people or entertain them. you can write your blog to report on the latest news or to entertain people, but you can also do both of these things at the same time. take a look at some of the most popular comedy news shows like: “a closer look,” “daily show” or “last week tonight”. all these shows report on current events and tackle some serious topics, but they all do it through comedy. your blog posts can do the same. inspire amplification. as mentioned in the goals section, you can generate posts designed to target influencers and to increase the visibility of your blog. your content aspires to get a lot of shares across the web and attract a lot of people. creating a more positive image of a particular brand. the posts you are creating might not do any of the aforementioned things. you could share personal experiences to establish a connection between you and your readers, to inspire loyalty and evangelism. once you have defined goals for your blog and know what your blog posts need to do to help you achieve those goals, you can move on to brainstorming blog posts ideas. how to come up with great blog post ideas coming up with the ideas for blog posts should be easy, but accomplishing these ideas is a bit trickier, but still achievable. in fact, you don’t even need to be creative to find a good topic; you can cover an existing theme, as long as you do it better than the current top competitor on that same subject. here, we will give you an example of the thought process of coming with quality blog post ideas: 1. are there any open or unaddressed issues in your field of expertise? the idea is to find a question that is quite popular, but it still lacks an adequate answer. then you go to extra lengths to make the answer as elaborate as possible. you should survey the readers, create online discussions on social networks, engage in informal conversations, and then create a topic based on the things you discovered. 2. do you have access to unique types of assets that can play to your advantage? generally speaking, this is a relatively leveled playground for the majority of bloggers, considering we all do our research online. all that you need to do is know where to look, and to know if the sources are credible. if you report on something published in a different language, knowing a reliable translator can help you release content sooner than your competition. in other words, do you have a means of acquiring fresh information before it has gone viral? 3. explore an existing topic from a personal perspective it is very common, and it works quite well, especially if you are doing reviews of products, books, movies, video games, etc. you rely on your creativity, personal feelings, and beliefs when you are reviewing something, and people like that for a good reason. individuals who share your opinion, in general, are likely to accept your evaluation of a particular product. you can be amazed, angry, indifferent in regards to the thing you are reviewing and these will all count as valid points, as long as you elaborately back them up with reasons. 4. covering the most recent development in your field of expertise when there is a big event coming along, you can prepare an outline ahead of time and stream the live version of the event. take notes, so that you can report it as thoroughly as possible. 5. create a post based on currently popular keywords a lot of content generated today is related to the top searched queries, to get more visibility in a short time frame. one of the techniques that you can use to get high rankings and traffic is a skyscraper method. it’s described in details by brian dean in this blog post. 6. create posts that are closely related to your core audience finally, if you write for a specific audience, you can generate content that is closely related to your niche, that your audience cares about. for example, if you review superhero movies, chances are your audience also loves to play video games so that you can blog on that topic as well. evaluate the topic (size, competition, monetization) if your goal is to generate income from blogging, you should test your ideas before starting. you do this by evaluating the volume of the keywords you are going after and how recent is the topic. 3 principles of viral headlines the headline you use will play a critical role in getting more visits and social shares. good headlines make people take action because they show one of the following: social currency practical value threat here are examples that prove the points and meet one of the criteria: social currency the more public something or, the more influential people use something, the more likely people will imitate it. examples of headlines: why 1000’s of bloggers will come to smx conference on march 20th, 2018 ernest hemingway’s top 5 tips for writing well practical value useful things to get attention. highlight the benefit and promise to gain something if the person takes action. examples of headlines: spend 10 minutes a day, and you’ll have incredible abs in 2 months how we got 1,000+ subscribers from a single blog post in 24 hours threat people often take action when they need to protect themselves from some threat. examples of headlines: warning: don’t buy another ounce of dog food until you read this 50 reasons your website deserves to be penalized by google the headline tools you can use when something becomes bothersome, we immediately begin to wonder if there is an app that can help us out. luckily for this task, there are lots of tools available. you can rely on title generating apps to create original titles. one of them is headline analyzer from coschedule. conclusion as you can see, finding a suitable subject to blog about can be a somewhat difficult process. but if you have the right approach your content will have a lot of viral potentials. we hope that by using our suggestions and examples, you will be able to discover the best topic for you to blog. this entry was posted in blogging. bookmark the permalink. additional reading new blogger sans font ten characteristics of a blog and a quality blog post the difference between a blog title and a blog domain name (url) blogging statistics, facts, and trends (2020) what is a blog post? - the perfect structure start your own blog this guide is an introduction to mastering the art of blogging. it provides easy to follow steps to start, maintain, and grow your blog. read the guide « previous how to become an authority blogger in your niche next » what is blog marketing? leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.