skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search what is my duty? what is my duty? what is my duty to myself, cindy, my family, friends, society, and humanity? debeo debitum— my duty, my debt, my obligation. like a “debit” card. it seems the notion of duty first originates from the financial notion of debt. if you owe someone money or have a debt, you’re obliged to them. you don’t got freedom. you gotta pay them back. my duty my personal duty is to be strong. to be strong for myself and others. my hierarchy: first myself, then cindy, then friends, family, then everyone else. you don’t gotta “pay back” your debt in life the misguided notion: jesus sacrificed his life for us, thus we must also sacrifice our lives for others, otherwise we are contemptible, evil, and despicable people who will rot in hell. utilitarian notions tricky thing about utilitarianism and american and western thought: the collective happiness and thriving of everyone prioritizes the masses over the individual. thus, an individual is seen only as a useful instrument or utility for the masses. anything an individual does for the herd is good, anything the individual does for himself is evil. duty must be self-dictated — for yourself, by yourself, and towards your own personal ends. my ultimate duty is towards humanity. i want to see society thrive to the maximum. i want to empower the individual. but why? because i want to. i care. it’s what is genuine to me. my virtues are my virtues, your virtues are your virtues nobody should superimpose their ethics and morality on someone else. in simple terms: my pride commands that my virtues are private for myself, and to superimpose my virtues on others reduces the grandeur of my personal ethics and morality. duty is not universal we new stoics — what is our duty to ourselves? to become harder. stronger. colder. more cruel. more indifferent. more insensitive. more focused, hard, and concentrated in ourselves. henri neck strap (mark iii) shoot fearless > haptic industries creative tools to empower you. haptic industries on amazon > eric kim newsletter free motivation: email address eric kim workshops conquer your fears and meet new peers: april 25-26: chicago conquer composition workshop september 19-20: boston discover your unique voice in photography workshop (new date) november 4-8: havana, cuba travel street photography workshop experience – register intent join ars: the anti-social social media for photographers what do people really think about your photos? arsbeta.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta