skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us what does a blogger do? my life as a professional blogger lauren mcmanus updated: 1/8/20 • comments: 33 home » create and go blog » blogging basics » what does a blogger do? my life as a professional blogger disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin180 shares180 i think a lot of people see how much money we make and immediately think, “what does a blogger do?” like, you just write stuff and people pay you??? most people are somewhat familiar with the online world these days and they know what a basic website looks like. but you’ve probably noticed that terms “blogger” and “blogging” are starting to pop up a lot more lately and are getting curious. alex and i started a blog in the health and wellness space — specifically teaching women how to lose weight. with this first blog, we were able to… earn $103,457.98 in our first year of blogging quit our full-time jobs of working as a cpa (me) and personal trainer (alex) create our own schedules for work and playtime start traveling the world so, how did we do it? here is an overview of what we will cover in this article: table of contents close open what does a blogger do? (my job as a professional blogger) let’s answer the question of what does a blogger do by first addressing some misnomers about bloggers. let’s define what i mean by “blog” there are tons of different websites out there, including everything from ones that sell t-shirts to ones that display photos or videos. a blog is a type of website where content is written with the purpose of educating the reader on a specified topic or topics. they can also have photos and offer products to sell (including t-shirts), but the written articles make up the majority of the content on the blog. this article that you are reading right now is a post that is part of our blog, create and go. for more specifics: what is a blog? (how it works explained simply) why did i get started? everyone has a different personal reason getting involved with blogging, but they typically all fall under these broader reasons: financial freedom time freedom creative outlet desire to travel love of writing or teaching desire to run your own business for us, financial freedom and time freedom were at the top of the list. a blogging career allows you the financial freedom to control your income and the time freedom to work where and when you want. whether it’s to earn a better income, spend time with your kiddos, or just because you simply can’t stand the thought of working a soul-sucking 9-5 job, blogging can provide this freedom. related: 10 reasons to begin blogging today! what does a blogger do? (my job as a professional blogger) if i’m going to give you a 50,000 foot-overview and put this into the simplest terms possible, i can break down the overall duties of a blogger into three basic tasks: write content recommend products sell products now, there is a lot more to it than that and quite a few things in between, including: sales marketing customer service production research and development accounting and finance but they all serve the purpose of the three top-level tasks. let’s go into a little more detail to help you understand. bloggers write content the primary task of a blogger is to produce content in the form of articles. blog content is how you provide value to your audience, educate them on what your business is about, and ultimately build trust with them before you can expect them to spend any money. you should generally post at least one new article a week, although some people post much more frequently or even less frequently than that. posting twice a week in the early stages of your blog is a good idea to help it grow faster. related: how to write a blog post your readers will love (blog writing) social media and other traffic platforms like pinterest, google, instagram, and facebook all favor users that publish new content regularly, which makes it a very important task in your business. if you’re wondering what to write about, don’t worry. there are plenty of ways to figure that out. you can run searches and use other software to help you figure it out. there is never a shortage of topics to write about! check out our article on keyword research tools for bloggers for some additional help. remember that writing is a large part of what separates your blog from being just a website. it’s one of your main jobs as a blogger, and while you can also outsource it and hire writers to write for you, it is still a task that must be completed regularly! the free content that you provide on your blog is the foundation of your business. okay so if i’m offering all of this free content to others, how do i actually make money? recommend products i use the word “recommend” here because i’m referring to affiliate marketing. to earn money blogging, you don’t have to actually sell your own products. you can actually sell products that belong to other people and companies. this is called affiliate marketing. let me illustrate this with an example: bluehost is the #1 blog hosting site that we recommend. $2.75 per month (paid annually) create and go rating get discounted hosting open we are also an affiliate for bluehost and that link above is called an affiliate link. if you decide to sign up for bluehost through our link, we get a commission off of the total purchase price. bluehost pays us this commission because we helped them make a sale by recommending their product to our readers. they have even offered us a special discount pricing of $2.75/month to offer to our readers to help us make sales. think of it as a business partnership. we could have this partnership with any other hosting company, but we chose bluehost because it is what we personally used to take our blogs to six figures. make sure that you only recommend products that you use and/or truly believe in. perhaps one of the easiest ways to make money with affiliate marketing is through the amazon associates program. you can actually recommend amazon products in your articles and receive a small commission on the purchase price if anyone purchases from your articles. you can make a great income from your blog by recommending affiliate products to your audience and some people make six figures from their blog with affiliate marketing alone. but there is one final step if you want to truly scale your income. sell products the final frontier of monetizing and taking it to truly crazy and unpredictable heights is to sell your own products. what kind of products are we talking about? well, they could be digital or physical. we specialize in and teach about how to create and sell digital products – aka information products like ebooks and ecourses. selling physical products can be a lot trickier and riskier because you generally have to manage inventory, packaging, shipping, returns, etc. we chose to go the route of offering digital products because the process is much simpler. the first two digital products that we created were two weight loss ebooks/programs that we sold on our health and wellness blog. on this blog, create and go, we sell blogging courses to help people start and build their own online business through blogging. alex and i created all of these digital products ourselves, including the writing, designing, sales pages, marketing, etc. these products are what make up a good portion of our blogging income, in addition to selling affiliate products and services. when you sell your own products, you control every part of the process, including the product price, costs, sales, marketing, and more. now, we call it the final frontier because creating your own products can be very time-consuming and you still have no guarantee that you will be able to sell it effectively. we recommend starting out with affiliate marketing first because it will help you learn more about your target audience, the products they are most interested in, and how to sell those products to them. what else does a blogger do on a daily basis? as a blogger, you’re generally a one-man show. your tasks will vary from day-to-day but as we said before, they generally revolve around the three top-level tasks discussed above. here are some of the general tasks a blogger does on a daily and/or weekly basis: production: writing amazing blog posts writing emails to your audience creating your own products research and development: finding new topics to write about researching articles to learn new strategies taking courses to invest more in your learning sales and marketing: writing content designed to help sell products (affiliates or your own) writing emails designed to help sell products (affiliates or your own) creating sales pages for your products customer service: communicating with people that purchase your products providing additional help and support for your products accounting and finance: keeping track of your blog spending keeping track of your blog revenues reporting your blog profits on your tax return the above tasks are ones that you will likely encounter at some point in your blogging business. note that some of them can certainly be outsourced. you can hire a writer to write your articles for you, although we don’t recommend doing that until later on (if at all). if you don’t have any desire to write, you’re probably looking at the wrong career. you can also hire a virtual assistant to help you out with customer service or an accountant to manage your finances. many of the tasks required in the blogging industry can be outsourced, but keep in mind that you will be doing all of them yourself in the beginning – as you should be to learn the process before outsourcing. how do you get started? i hope i haven’t scared you away yet! the first step is to figure out what to blog about. you will want to select a profitable blog niche based on what you are passionate about or a topic that you are very interested in. there are tons of successful blogs in various niches, so stick with something that you know and are comfortable talking about. people will know if you try to be anything that you’re not. if there are multiple topics that you want to talk about that are somewhat related (like parenting, diy home projects, etc.), that’s okay too. you can create a lifestyle kind of blog and discuss a few topics. your blog will change and evolve over time, so you don’t have to be 100% stuck on an idea before starting and you really shouldn’t be. once you’ve decided what you write about on your blog, the next step is to get started! read now: how to create a blog (step-by-step beginners guide) if you’re still feeling a little unsure about the process and need some more time, we recommend signing up for our free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners. it comes with videos and written content that will walk you through the process in more detail. you’ll get each lesson one day at a time so that you don’t get overwhelmed and have more time to process everything. okay, that’s it for this article on what does a blogger do, guys! we hope you enjoyed it! if you enjoyed this article on what does a blogger do or have any questions for us, please feel free to leave us a comment below! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin180 shares180 about lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. read this next how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) open this window to get started with bluehost now.start with bluehost nowstart now are you looking for a simple, step-by-step guide to how to start a blog and actually make money from it!? our free guide on this page will show you how to create a blog that is beautiful and functional, all in an easy step-by-step […] keep reading > similar articles blogging basics how much does it really cost to start a blog? (2020 update) 10 popular and profitable blog niches that still work in 2020 how much do bloggers make? like, really? [2020 edition] what is a blog? blogging & how it works (simple guide) see all blog posts 33 leave a reply 15 comment threads 18 thread replies 0 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 19 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest mish keep it up and pray to god for you thanks you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 20 days ago admin alex and lauren thank you! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 20 days ago guest obiora chin edu chukwuemeka hi guys am new here …pls i need some help you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren hey there! we have a free 5-day blogging bootcamp on the home page you should check out 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest grace hey guys! i’ve been wanting to jump into blogging for years and i’ve had nothing but cold feet. i don’t have a degree, i’m not an expert in anything, by any means, and my interests are so varied and often change. i love to write, though! is there hope for someone impulsive who can’t seem to find their “niche”? is self-improvement too general? i enjoy too many things, and there just isn’t one singular thing that jumps out at me. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren hey grace. self-improvement is a good starting point, but you will want to niche-down as you see what kind of content your audience is responding to the most. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest lynn hi lauren, i’m 71 yrs young and was thinking about just writing a blog of my thoughts and ideas and things i have learned along the way. not thinking of making money or a living out of blogging. do you think i would be just wasting my time or taking up space on the web? or even just making a fool of myself? grandma lynn you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren hey lynn, i don’t think you would be wasting your time if it’s something you will enjoy. if you are not looking to make money, that takes some of the pressure off and you can just enjoy the process. there is room for everyone on the internet 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest dan ooko hi alex i need to start immediately what should i do you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago admin alex and lauren hey harry. i don’t know adthrives policy on accepting bloggers outside the usa, but you can contact them to find out. the best way to drive traffic from the usa is to have articles that target the american audience. i suggest doing a google search on how to drive traffic from the usa to your blog for more information. hope this helps 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago guest harry yes, it helps. thanks a million. i will like to follow you as my mentor. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago admin alex and lauren awesome! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago admin alex and lauren hey dan. the first thing you should do is click on the red link from our homepage, “how to start a blog”. read that post, then sign up for our 7-day free course at the bottom of that article. then, once you are ready, check out our course line up which will guide you through building, launching, driving traffic, and monetizing your blog. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago guest jerrell hello alex and lauren… i just recently stumbled upon your blogging info when i typed in what is a blog at google . i want financial freedom for our family, more time with family you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey, jerrell! so glad you found us! make sure to sign up for our free 7-day ecourse on starting a blog if you haven’t already! you can access the course at the bottom of our “how to start a blog” article linked on our homepage. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest manikha how can we give our content to a blogger to post it? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren you generally to reach out and ask but many bloggers don’t accept guest posts. it’s often best to look through their website and contact area to see if they accept guest posts before you ask. you can also run a google search to find guest post opportunities. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest holley hello, i have dreamed of a successful career working from home or owning my own business for years! i keep reading these blog success stories and i really want to “jump in” but i’ve tried different things over the years that haven’t worked so i’m a little “gun shy”! but honestly, deep down i have always kept the dream alive to be successful in my own business. something i’m reading here seems like you really want to help us succeed. i really want to try this and so i think i’m going to “jump in”. thanks for helping us dreamers… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey holley! thanks for sharing your story with us! congrats on diving in! that’s the very first step! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest harish kumar helpful article, if anyone comes without any knowledge about blogging, i am sure this article will feed everything about the business, keep doing this great work and keep sharing. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest ilze hi guys! thank you so much for all the useful information! i am totally new to blogging, so it is all super helpful! i wonder how easy it would be to create a successful blog in a small country like my native latvia (under 2 million people)… here, we still have a long way to go in the direction of greener and more planet-friendly lifestyle direction, which is the theme i’d like to tackle in my blog (one day!). any thoughts on that? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey there. we’re not familiar with that country, but i think it’s definitely worth a try! you’ll never know until you try it, right!? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest ashwin hey alex&lauren, i like to blog about books and other useful products or gadgets. so is it possible to post my reviews on them(affiliate marketing) in the same blogging site. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren absolutely! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest cindy hi alex and lauren, i live in new zealand, yes it’s a really long way from you guys! i’ve just been devouring all the free content on your create and go blog. i took the leap and decided to invest in bluehost a couple days ago and i’m still in the customizing stage at this point. i will be enrolling in one of your courses soon, probably the launch your blog course, i still can’t really decide because you have some much great stuff i really want to learn. i just want to let you both know that i absolutely… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey cindy, thank you so much for your kind words!!! we are so happy that we can be such a helpful resource for you! congrats on getting started! we’re excited to see where you take your blog! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest kara mcnab i was wondering if it’s a good idea to have written a few blogs (meaning articles ) before i take your beginner course. i’m not an experienced writer or near any expert satus on what i think will be my avenue of blogging. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey kara, i would purchase the course first before getting too far with the content creation because the course will help you with this! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest nicholas heitman wow….this is killer! i have nothing to lose! your presentation is so not hyped….. and i love it! so easy to understand and straight to the point. i am currently taking your 7-day walkthrough. thanks guys! i already created my domain name but more excited to write my content. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren thank you, nicholas! we’re happy to have you here! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest marion i’m currently working on launching my first blog and have been really overwhelmed by it. reading this post has helped me get a better view of my goals 🙂 thank you! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey marion, we’re so glad that it helped you!! thank you for taking the time to leave a comment! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest jamie marion, i started a blog a few months back and decided to take buy their course make money blogging for beginners. i work full time so it is taking me a little time to get through it. i am almost done with the course and have personally found it really helpful. if you’re thinking about taking a course to help yourself spend some time looking to see what the create and go courses offer. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren thank you so much for your honest words and awesome feedback about our course, jamie! we really appreciate it! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest mish very good theme i say awesome content you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 20 days ago admin alex and lauren thanks! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 20 days ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents what does a blogger do? (my job as a professional blogger) footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz