menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: etiquette, featured, relationships & family antonio • november 14, 2019 last updated: january 8, 2020 a man’s guide to etiquette there are few words that generate less excitement in a male audience than “etiquette.” on the scale of things men like to talk about, it usually ranks somewhere between contemporary dance and nail polish. but it matters. it matters a lot, actually. etiquette is as much a part of your appearance as the cut of your suit. it affects how everyone perceives you, from the waiter you tip to the person watching you tip them. a man who dresses like a gentleman but behaves like a boor isn’t going to be mistaken for a gentleman for very long. etiquette vs. manners: an important distinction “but what about all those crazy rules?!” i hear you cry. thick manuals on manners can have that effect on people. it makes sense — why, after all, if you’re a good and well-meaning person, should you be judged on which spoon you use for soup? who has time to remember all that? happily, you don’t have to remember a bunch of specific rules — at least not most of the time. manners are slightly different from etiquette, though they are an important part of it in some circumstances: etiquette means the way you handle yourself as a part of society. it is, fundamentally, the sum of your behaviors and how they measure up to other people’s expectations. manners are specific customs and habits accepted as normal and proper behavior. your manners are the rules and rituals that you perform publicly. an easy way to understand the difference: you can make a list of manners, but you can’t make a list of “etiquettes.” when it comes to manners, the basic ones like saying “please” and “thank you” and chewing with your mouth closed are very likely things you’ve known since grade school and don’t need to sweat (though you may need occasional reminders to practice them). more “exotic” scenarios, where navigating two dozen pieces of silverware is expected behavior, are exceedingly rare — and in those situations, the proper etiquette is to take the time to learn the expected manners. when it comes to learning etiquette, forget about soup spoons, and instead think about the entire way you comport yourself in your day-to-day life. rather than concerning rules, etiquette is about common sense guidelines for how to think and act like a gentleman. as the purpose of this particular guide is to teach you etiquette, rather than the specifics of manners, below we expand on these guidelines. the fundamentals of etiquette good etiquette is not adherence to rules; it is a way of thought and behavior. at its core, it is little more than a conscious attempt to be a positive contributor to human society rather than a negative one. different writers have suggested different principles of etiquette, but in my experience it comes down to three simple fundamentals: awareness thoughtfulness confidence 1. awareness awareness is knowing your situation and the expectations other people will have of you in that situation. consider our example from above: in most situations, no one will ever expect you to know which spoon is for which soup course. most situations don’t even have a soup course, much less multiple ones. however, a man who finds himself in one of those situations should be aware of the new expectations. fancy dinners don’t usually jump out unexpectedly, so a gentleman will take the time to learn and memorize the basics of tableware if he does find himself invited to such an event. this is the first fundamental of etiquette. it is the art of reading a situation and determining what people will expect of you. in most cases, this is as simple as watching quietly and being a thoughtful observer for a few minutes before acting — a good default behavior in almost any circumstance. 2. thoughtfulness “will this action make a positive impact on the people around me?” any action can be tested with that simple question. an action that answers in the negative requires hard thought before doing it. we can’t make everyone happy all of the time. but there’s a big difference between facing the unpleasant necessity of disappointing or frustrating someone and thoughtlessly doing something that causes needless bad feelings. thoughtfulness means considering how your actions change the lives or experiences of others, not just yourself. it’s important to note that thoughtfulness isn’t just avoiding rude or offensive things. it’s the principle of doing things that make life better for everyone, in big or little ways. avoidance of conflict is a good start, but it’s hardly the pinnacle of thoughtful behavior. 3. confidence few things are as awkward or damaging to a social situation than a man floundering about trying to do the right thing without knowing quite what that is. as contradictory as it sounds, one of the most important rules of polite behavior is never appearing frustrated or confused by the rules of polite behavior. awareness and thoughtfulness help enormously with this, of course, which is why they’re the other two pillars of good etiquette. but being able to do the right thing without making a big deal out of it is just as important. confidence is not aggression or over-assertiveness, of course. if you’re making a noticeable show of behaving politely, you’re not behaving politely. confidence should be invisible — it is the driving force that allows thoughtful, polite behavior to happen smoothly and seamlessly. basic social etiquette: day-to-day situations the most necessary form of etiquette is also the easiest to master. how should a man behave in his daily life, from his walk to work, to dinner and drinks after? turns out the answer is short, consistent, and common sense. 1. others first, then you a gentleman can take care of himself. as such, he should never need to cut in line, take the larger portion, speak at length about himself, or cut someone else off in conversation. anyone who advises you to do those things isn’t teaching assertiveness — he’s teaching bullying. this is nothing more than the assumption that other people’s happiness matters and that your actions can affect it. believe that and you’ve already mastered most of etiquette. 2. be a positive presence putting the needs of others first doesn’t mean being a wallflower. a neutral presence isn’t a presence at all. always be ready to be the guy who introduces himself with a firm handshake and clear, unbroken eye contact. an amazing number of men aren’t that guy — so you’ll find yourself rescuing less adept men and bringing them into the social interaction, which in turn leaves them grateful for and happy about your presence. above all, don’t ever let yourself stray into negativity. complaining in public never makes you look good, even when it’s about something that everyone around you also hates (waiting in line at airport security, say, or the construction outside the building). laugh, shrug, and change the conversation to something happier. that way your company isn’t associated with people’s negative feelings about other matters. 3. make the thoughtful gestures one of emily post’s famous sayings was: “asking if you can help isn’t courtesy — doing it is.” go ahead and do small, thoughtful things without asking. treat them as assumed, rather than as something you’ve gone out of your way to do. people will notice. in this day and age, they’ll be amazed. and it takes so little: hold doors. never make a show of diving for one, of course. but make the small moves you need well in advance so that you can always hold a door for your companion or for a stranger, regardless of their gender. if the physical realities of the situation make it more convenient for someone else to get the door, accept with grace, and wait for next time. greet with a smile and eye contact. whether you’re interacting with a cashier, clerk, or bartender, acknowledge their presence and recognize their humanity by smiling and looking them in the eye. in appropriate situations, also offer a handshake and your name. don’t treat people as interchangeable with automatons by using your phone while you interact with them. treat every person like their first impression of you matters — because it should. dress neatly. you don’t have to overdress, but your outfits should always look like outfits, rather than just clothes. use neat little touches like the right belt, a nice watch, or even just a fresh shine on your shoes to show that you care about details in everyday life, and are willing to help make special occasions feel special. use “sir” and “ma’am.” this never, ever hurts. many people will tell you “oh, just call me [name]” as soon as you do it, and then you can switch. but they’ll remember that you started with respect. these are the small differences that set gentlemen apart from just men. they’re almost mind-numbingly easy, and almost no one thinks to do them. be the minority who does. business etiquette: work situations one of the joys of business etiquette is that it’s consistent. the same basic courtesies apply whether the situation is a $2,500-a-head fundraiser dinner or a casual lunch between a new author and his/her literary agent. specific rules of dress and procedure will differ based on your setting, although there’s a good deal of consistency there, too. you may need to brush up on individual expectations if you’re attending a fancy dinner, black tie gala, or similar formal event. but the etiquette for any kind of business encounter, inside the office or out, remains the same: 1. above all else, do no harm this often-misattributed maxim doesn’t actually appear in the hippocratic oath that doctors take, but it’s a fantastic rule for business etiquette. no matter where you are or what your profession is, it depends on the good will of others. every impression matters. therefore, make every impression a good one. weigh your actions and choose only the ones that are positive and considerate of others. another good maxim to keep in mind is that “reputation takes a lifetime to build, but a moment to destroy.” be a little conservative in your actions and deeds. it not only gives other people time and space to be heard (which they always appreciate), it saves you from potentially disastrous missteps. a few things that should always be avoided in any business setting: raising your voice in anger. if you’re shouting, you’re probably wrong about what you’re saying. you’re also making a bad impression on everyone who can hear you. don’t. swearing. some offices are full of it; some offices aren’t. doesn’t matter. don’t get into the habit and you won’t ever do it around the wrong person. it’s useless filler anyway — little more than a glorified “um” — and over time it teaches people that they don’t have to listen to every word you say. physical contact. beyond a handshake (firm, brief, with eye contact) you shouldn’t be touching co-workers, clients, or anyone else at the office or event. this is especially true across genders, but applies to everyone. sloppy dress. casual is fine — if it’s appropriate for the setting — but messy is not. shirts should be tucked in; shoes should be shined. you want people to see a man who cares about details when they look at you. negative comments. about anything. rainy day, cubs lost their fifth straight, business deal fell through and cost you thousands of dollars — doesn’t matter. don’t be the guy who can’t stop hammering on the negatives. take a deep breath, limit yourself to a strained “wish that hadn’t gone that way,” and move on (to constructive solutions, if possible/relevant). 2. listen, then talk a polite businessman is a good businessman. don’t let pushy deal-makers convince you that it’s a weakness to listen, think, and then speak carefully and to the other person’s interests. people like to talk. let them. it gives you the double advantage of making them feel good about your company and giving you personal details to remember. consider everything they’re saying seriously, and address it in your response before going on to present your own views. good phrases include: “tell me more.” “[name], i’m interested what your take on this is.” “that’s interesting.” “that’s right, [name], didn’t you tell me that you [relevant personal detail]?” your own response, of course, can and should follow. if you’re dealing with a gentleman, they’ll afford you the same courtesy (and at the very least you’ve set a good example). but giving the other person that chance to talk makes you come across as an easy person to get along with — someone it’s pleasant to do business with. practically speaking, this is a skill that will also make you a better negotiator. aggressive business talk and tough deal-making works on people who are easily bullied, and you don’t find easily-bullied people in charge of important businesses. the guys who call the shots are not going to be impressed by bluster and short-term, win-it-now attitudes. demonstrating courtesy also demonstrates wisdom, long-term thinking, and an ability to understand cost/benefit analysis. so you get to do the right thing and help your career. nice, right? 3. be the nice guy in the room we’re talking about being an actual nice guy, not the stereotypical pushover “nice guy.” giving business concessions you don’t want to when negotiating a deal needn’t be part of being a gentleman, while employing healthy assertiveness should. but as a general rule, taking it upon yourself to make everyone’s life a little easier around the office and during meetings is good common sense, and a practical way to be thought of well and remembered fondly. look for small opportunities to establish yourself as a nice guy. if you’re at a restaurant, tip well. hold doors for people. carry a couple spare pens to a presentation in case someone needs one. bring donuts to the morning meeting. be cautious of overdoing it, however. business etiquette is more conservative than general social etiquette. certain gestures may be seen as inappropriate: gifts are almost never appropriate in a business setting. no matter how well meant, there is always the hint of impropriety. exceptions occur in situations where business could not possibly be affected, such as at someone’s retirement or going-away party, or on specific occasions like secretary’s day. pulling out a chair for a lady to sit or when she rises is not appropriate. let everyone handle their own chairs unless there is a physical need for assistance. payment for business meals should always rest on the person who issued the invitation. offering to pay is not necessary if you did not initiate the meeting or event. if you are the planner or host, you should not suggest splitting the check or accept someone else’s offer to pay. event etiquette: special situations weddings. baby showers. funerals. award dinners. end-of-season sports team parties. they all have their own special rules, and who can keep track of them, right? well, for the most part it’s actually pretty easy. the setting of a special event may affect a few of the specific manners you’ll be expected to observe — what to wear, whether to bring gifts, and so on. but the general behavior of a gentleman invited to attend a special occasion is remarkably consistent: 1. know the expectations there are going to be some specific rules. take some time to learn them. if there’s a specific dress code, the invitation will usually say. if there is no dress code and you’re unsure what’s appropriate, you have a couple options: quietly ask a few friends who are also attending. if it’s at a commercial venue, call the staff and ask what typical attire is. if all else fails, write a polite e-mail to the hosts and ask. as a general default, however, you usually won’t go wrong wearing slacks, a collared shirt with a necktie, and a casual sports jacket for most events. the jacket and tie can be shed and the sleeves of the shirt rolled up if you find yourself overdressed. other social expectations may include bringing a dish (potluck style) or presents for a specific occasion. these will be specified in the invitation. a small gift for the host/hostess is appropriate for events where gifts are not expected — chocolate, wine, or minor household items like coasters and stemware are usually good options. don’t be extravagant. events at places like restaurants, bars, or entertainment venues are sometimes paid for by the hosts and sometimes split among guests. ideally your hosts will tell you in advance, but have enough cash on hand (including some small bills) to make your part of bill-splitting easy if it does come up. 2. speak quietly and cheer loudly that phrase is shorthand for a deeply important idea: events that you are not hosting are not about you. you are there to be an appreciative audience and minor participant, not the center of attention. resist the temptation to be the man who gives unplanned toasts or speeches. if you are asked to, of course, do so, with enthusiastic praise for your hosts, but otherwise leave the talking to others. your contribution should be limited to polite conversation with other guests when no scheduled activities are taking place. many people feel awkward at large social gatherings, so help them out — if there’s a “mixer” period, take it upon yourself to offer a silent stranger a handshake and your name. ask them how they know the hosts, and lead them into conversation. if you have friends with you, make the relevant introductions. then hush and let the conversation flow naturally. 3. give the hosts their due thank your hosts for the invitation and present them with any gifts you’ve brought when you arrive. thank them again when you leave, and write and mail a letter or card the next day. conclusion: etiquette is an attitude etiquette is a state of mind and a way of life rather than a set of rules. it’s paying attention to your situation, thinking of other people first, and doing the right thing without hesitation. in simplest terms: awareness thoughtfulness confidence that’s all it takes. and it makes a huge difference in your life and in how other people see you. go be a gentleman! ____________________________ written by antonio centeno founder, real men real style click here to grab my free ebooks on men’s style related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// 18 at-home date ideas how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy