services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing bluleadz inbound marketing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply close services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply table of contents currently reading: what is hubspot?an in-depth look at your business software business software is quickly becoming a must-have tool for companies of all sizes in every industry. it’s no longer just geared toward enterprise-level organizations. from startups to mid-sized companies and beyond, every business has the opportunity to use kickass tools for all of their needs. this is evident when you comprehend the massive size of the business software market. research found that companies worldwide spent $456 billion in 2019 on enterprise software. and that number is expected to climb to $503 billion in 2020. some of the most notable benefits of using enterprise software include the following: streamline processes and reduce inefficiencies. integrate all your business data related to your finances as well as your customers and prospects. simplify collaboration by using centralized data. create more accurate forecast reports. ensure your business data is both accurate and secured. there are so many options available that fit everyone’s needs and budget. the biggest challenge is finding the right option, then implementing it. the most renowned enterprise software platforms include: microsoft oracle sap salesforce hubspot hubspot stands out in the growing competitive marketplace for enterprise software companies because it’s structured by price and features in a way that grows while your business grows. table of contents 1what is hubspot? 1what is hubspot? you’ve likely seen the iconic orange sprocket logo. the sprocket symbol is a great representation of what hubspot is built to do: transmit motion. and with the help of the right software tools, your business can move forward continuously. to truly understand the software, you need to know the history of the company. the history of hubspot co-founders brian halligan and dharmesh shah were at mit when they noticed how much buying behaviors were changing in 2004. people were no longer responding well to interruptive marketing tactics. these outbound marketing tactics were starting to be actively ignored. this change in buying behavior called for a change. for businesses to truly thrive, they needed to focus more on helping people first. they needed to focus on the customer, not just making more sales. halligan and shah opened their first hubspot office in cambridge, ma in 2005 as a marketing software company. just five years later, they released the seminal book for the inbound movement – inbound marketing: get found using google, social media, and blogs. in 2013, hubspot went international, opening their dublin office. the next year ushered in their first public offering on the stock market. what sets hubspot apart from other enterprise software options is the fact that it is built with the inbound methodology incorporated into every facet of their tools. 2hubspot is built on the inbound methodology 2hubspot is built on the inbound methodology what is inbound? inbound is the method of attracting, engaging, and delighting people to grow a business that provides value and builds trust. this methodology applies to marketing, sales, and customer service. all of these components work together to fuel the flywheel model. what is the flywheel model? source: hubspot the traditional approach many businesses use is the funnel. but the unfortunate truth is the funnel treats the customer like an afterthought. this is where the flywheel differentiates itself. it’s a necessary shift in how businesses treat the customer. as you can see with the funnel, after a stranger converts to a lead, gets handed off sales, then makes the purchase, they become a customer. but then what? they’re left on their own. but customers need continuous support and service. that’s why customer centricity is not just a business trend in today’s landscape. putting your customer at the center of everything you do is a must for your business to survive and thrive. here’s what the flywheel model looks like in your company, as marketing, sales, and service work together to attract, engage, and delight customers. source: hubspot you want to spark momentum and energy to fuel momentum of your flywheel. your ability to accomplish this depends on speed, the amount of friction, and how big it is. you can increase your speed by adding force to big impact areas of your business. to reduce friction, you find inefficiencies and address them. in turn, as your flywheel gains speed, you continually delight customers, turning them into advocates that help grow your business. this is why the flywheel model works. people don’t put as much trust in marketers and salespeople as they used to. source: hubspot now, consumers trust what people are saying about your brand. therefore, when you constantly delight customers, you’re encouraging them to act as advocates for you. this is why strong customer experience is your best asset. and the hubspot platform is built for optimizing your customer experience. let’s take a look at each part of hubspot and how it supports your business. 3the hubspot crm 3the hubspot crm the heart of your business is your contacts database, which is built on your customer relationship management (crm) suite. a crm is a must for many reasons. it centralizes data in one place for all your teams to use. it helps you speed up sales cycles and decrease potential customer churn. it supports marketing and sales in lead nurturing. you want your crm to be easy to use, streamline access for all your teams, integrate seamlessly with your other software tools, and provide insightful reporting features. this is where the hubspot crm stands out. not only does it check all those boxes, but it also beats out the competition in pricing. while many options charge per user on a monthly basis, hubspot’s crm fulfills the hubspot guarantee: it’s free. forever. that’s a great deal when you look at all the features it comes with. hubspot crm features here’s a high-level view of all the awesome features it comes with, which set you up for fast growth. reporting dashboards: access detailed sales metrics to track and manage performance. deal tracking: gain visibility on all deals your sales team is working on. pipeline management: monitor and manage everything in your sales pipeline. company insights: view all your details and communications with each company you’re working with. unlimited number of users: have all hands on deck for no extra charge. unlimited storage: keep all the data you need. 1,000,000 contacts and companies: fill your database without worrying about strict limitations. your hubspot crm seamlessly integrates with the rest of your business tools, including your marketing hub, sales hub, and service hub. top hubspot crm alternatives aside from hubspot crm, there are several options to invest in. here’s a look at the top five best hubspot crm alternatives: hubspot crm vs. salesforce hubspot crm vs. pipedrive hubspot crm vs. insightly hubspot crm vs. agile crm hubspot crm vs. zoho 4the hubspot marketing hub 4the hubspot marketing hub marketing automation software helps companies in a variety of ways: you ensure consistency across all your channels. you better segment and target your audience with personalized content. you streamline your marketing efforts to boost efficiency and save resources. you maintain accountability for your marketing team by tracking results. you test and optimize your tactics over time. the hubspot marketing hub is a top choice, and it’s available in four different tiers. free the free tier comes with a ton of awesome features, including the following: forms: add pop-ups, external form tracking, and native forms. email marketing: send bulk emails, use the drag and drop editor, and add personalization tokens. ad management: connect ad networks, create audiences in the crm, and track results. list segmentation: create both static and active lists using crm properties and criteria. live chat: host one-to-one conversations with visitors in real time. conversational bots: route visitors to helpful content, and scale one-to-one conversations. reporting dashboards: get a bird’s eye view of your performance using 10 reports in your dashboard. custom properties: associate specific data points with deals, companies, and contacts. team email: sync your team’s emails with your conversations inbox. messenger integration: connect and engage through facebook messenger. starter price: starts at $50 per month, or $40 per month if you pay annually. while there are some restrictions with the free marketing tools, hubspot marketing hub starter comes with fewer restrictions, as well as these additional features: landing pages: build conversion paths using the drag and drop editor and helpful templates. ad retargeting: show ads to visitors after they leave your site. multiple currencies: track and manage several kinds of currencies. professional price: starts at $800 per month. along with fewer restrictions on the aforementioned features, the hubspot marketing hub professional comes with: phone support: get instant access to hubspot support teams when you need help. blog and content creation tools: build your blog and landing pages while following seo best practices. seo and content strategy tools: follow automated recommendations to optimize all your content. google search console integration: gain visibility of your organic search data directly in your hubspot portal. calls to action: create engaging buttons and conduct a/b testing to optimize your conversion paths. ssl certificate: keep your content and data secure to give your visitors peace of mind. social media: connect your accounts, schedule posts, and monitor results. competitor tracking: keep tabs on others in your industry and set benchmarks. subdomain availability: connect to other subdomains to host content inside your hubspot. marketing automation: streamline email marketing, social media, task management, and ads using automation capabilities. salesforce integration: keep your contact data in sync between your salesforce and hubspot accounts. attribution reporting: see what marketing efforts are yielding your best lead and revenue results. a/b testing: test variations of copy and design on emails and landing pages. video hosting and management: host and embed videos on site pages while tracking performance. teams: organize teams, make assignments, and track performance on a team level. custom reporting: add custom reports to your dashboards to fit your needs. standard contact scoring: assign rule-based scoring criteria, and use scores to segment your audience. campaign reporting: group content into dedicated campaigns to track performance. filtered analytics view: add filters to focus on the data you need for specific efforts. calculated properties: create custom equations based on number properties. website traffic analytics: dive deep on content performance looking at specific metrics. record customization: create conditional layouts to match records to your processes. enterprise price: starts at $3,200 per month. the additional features you get with hubspot marketing hub enterprise include: hierarchical teams: organize your users in various ways, like region and team. adaptive testing: automate your a/b testing to optimize webpage performance. user roles: permit the right permissions to each user. single sign-on: enhance security and make it convenient for users to sign in. custom event triggers and reporting: auto trigger tasks for specific visitor actions, then report on them. event-based segmentation: create action-specific groups of contacts and deliver personalized content to these lists. predictive lead scoring: automate lead scoring and ranking based on various factors. cms membership: create smart lists to restrict access to hubspot-hosted content. multi-touch revenue attribution: assign credit to teams and tactics for your marketing. your hubspot marketing hub is built to guide your growth and to grow alongside your business. gain control and visibility of all your ongoing marketing tactics. top hubspot marketing hub alternatives there are so many marketing automation tools available. here are some notable alternatives to the hubspot marketing hub: hubspot marketing hub vs. marketo hubspot marketing hub vs. marketing360 hubspot marketing hub vs getresponse hubspot marketing hub vs. activecampaign hubspot marketing hub vs. sharpspring hubspot marketing hub vs. sendinblue hubspot marketing hub vs. wishpond hubspot marketing hub vs. engagebay 5the hubspot sales hub 5the hubspot sales hub sales automation consists of software, artificial intelligence (ai), and digital tools working together to streamline manual tasks related to your sales processes. businesses with sales automation software enjoy several advantages, including the following: streamlining sales tasks. reducing response time. maintaining sales data consistency. boosting productivity and performance. shortening the sales cycle. the hubspot sales hub is a top choice for sales automation software. let’s go through each available tier. free with no financial commitment, you get access to a ton of awesome free sales tools, most notably: live chat: engage visitors in one-to-one chats. conversational bots: boost engagement at scale by using chatbots to connect visitors with the information they need. conversations inbox: give your whole team access to all incoming chats and emails. calling: record and auto-log calls you make through a voip inside hubspot. email scheduling: plan ahead by creating contextual emails and assigning a date and time to send. email tracking and notifications: get real-time insights and track ongoing email messages. email templates: optimize your top-performing emails and share them with your team for consistency while saving time. canned snippets: build a bank of answers to faqs that you can add quickly in live chat and emails. documents: create your sales documents library for easy sharing with prospects. meeting scheduling: share a link with prospects so they can see when you’re free and book meetings. reporting dashboards: access detailed metrics on sales activity and performance. deal pipeline: track deals and predict future revenue based on how likely they are to close. custom properties: add associations between specific data points and contacts, companies, and deals. team email: avoid leads slipping through the cracks by turning emails into tickets and routing them to a shared conversations inbox. messenger integration: use facebook messenger to leverage one-to-one conversations, chatbots, and more. starter price: starts at $50 per month, or $40 per month if you pay annually. after upgrading to hubspot sales hub starter, your free tools come with less restrictions and you gain access these features: conversation routing: automate conversation assignments to the right sales team members. rep productivity performance: monitor activity your reps conduct with calling tools, templates, and sequences. quotes: create customized proposals in no time. deal stage, task, and lead rotation automation: automate sales processes through the workflows tool. email support: gain instant access to hubspot’s support team via email. goals: measure success based on period-based quotas. professional price: starts at $500 per month. the best tools that you can use with this tier include the following: workflow extensions: trigger more actions and transmit data to other tools. esignature: get digital signatures on documents and proposals. phone support: directly connect with the hubspot support team by giving them a call. custom reporting: track the sales data that matters the most. products: build a product library and track what products and services are being purchased the most. slack integration: create tasks and get notified in integrated slack channels. record customization: just as you get in the marketing hub professional, you can match records to your sales process. calculated properties: create fields that roll data from other fields to calculate important sales numbers, like commission. enterprise price: starts at $1,200 per month. at the top level of the hubspot sales hub, you get all you need to run big sales teams and maximize efficiency. here are the enterprise-exclusive features, many of which you get access to using the other hub enterprise tiers: predictive lead scoring: find the leads you need to focus on the most and prioritize your team’s engagement with them. hierarchical teams: this is a must for massive sales teams spread across different regions. quote-based workflows: set thresholds to monitor when they’re exceeded, which would then require approval for those quotes. call transcription: take the legwork out of manually writing down your entire discussion during sales calls. recurring revenue tracking: use detailed reports to manage and track recurring revenue. playbooks: develop a library of sales resources you want your whole team to understand. user roles: ensure permissions are correct for the right sales team members. webhooks: enable your team to automate data transfers and send information seamlessly between hubspot and other web applications. single sign-on: make it easy for your sales team to get into their account and access the information they need. top hubspot sales hub alternatives with so many sales automation software options, there are a lot of considerations to look at. these are the most notable hubspot sales hub alternatives: hubspot sales hub vs. close hubspot sales hub vs. freshsales hubspot sales hub vs. closer bot hubspot sales hub vs. salesexec hubspot sales hub vs. pipeliner 6the hubspot service hub 6the hubspot service hub many businesses are using automation tools to make the most of their customer service efforts. there are many benefits of using customer service automation software. you minimize wait time. you reduce the need for more employees. you reduce the potential for human risk. you free up more time for your employees to support customers. here’s a breakdown of the four tiers of the hubspot service hub. free for no charge, you can start delivering excellent customer service using several free tools you get through the other free hubs (e.g., live chat, conversational bots, meeting scheduling, messenger integration) as well as these free service hub tools: ticketing: log customer issues and assign them as tickets to your team. email and chat to ticket: track one-off emails to contacts and get real-time notifications. ticket creation bots: create tickets and send them to the right location, boosting efficiency and scaling conversations. calling: this is the same feature in hubspot sales hub free, where you can log and track service calls. tickets closed reports: measure your service team’s efforts on volume, response times, and other categories. rep productivity reports: see productivity and response times for each rep to assess performance. starter price: starts at $50 per month, or $40 per month if you pay annually. this tier gives you fewer restrictions on free tools and provides access to the following features: email scheduling: the same feature for sales hub starter, which you can use to plan out service team emails. calling sdk: integrate voip providers with the communicator on the contact timeline. conversation routing: automate assignments of incoming calls and emails to your reps. ticket pipelines: split tickets into different pipelines and manage them to align with your processes. multiple currencies: just like with the marketing hub starter, you get access to process several different currencies. professional price: starts at $400 per month, or $320 per month if you pay annually. here’s a look at the best features you get with the professional tier: knowledgebase: crete help articles out of faqs for your support team. 1:1 video creation and hosting: create help videos for customers, then use them in emails, tickets, and knowledgebase articles. nps surveys: solicit feedback to measure how many customers are advocates and find how to turn more of them into advocates. customer experience surveys: request customer feedback about a particular part of your product or service. customer support surveys: get input from customers on their experience with your service team. customer reporting: gain customers’ perspectives on what they think about the overall customer experience. ticket status, routing, and automation: automate manual work like adding tasks, managing tickets, and following up with customers. teams: same as with marketing and sales, you can ensure the right people have the right access. insights dashboard: keep all your customer feedback in one place to measure and monitor service performance. salesforce integration: align your hubspot with your salesforce contacts database. phone support: call hubspot for direct access to their support team. sequence queues: deliver personalized emails to multiple customers efficiently. standard contact scoring: this is the same feature you get with the marketing hub professional. customer service automation: reduce resources spent on manual tasks like writing emails. record customization: similar to marketing and sales, you can match your service records to align with your service processes. slack integration: stay on top of real-time engagement with your customers through slack notifications. enterprise price: starts at $1,200 per month. the top tier of the hubspot service hub empowers large customer service teams to continually support and delight customers in a scalable way. the most notable enterprise features include: playbooks: centralize a library of customer service resources that your team can use. call transcription: save the pains of manually transcribing service calls. user roles: assign the right access for the right people. single sign on: make it easy for your service teams to sign in and get access to the information they need immediately. webhooks: allow your hubspot to work seamlessly with other web apps. goals: set benchmarks and measure your service team success against clear objectives for specific metrics. hierarchical teams: organize access across your team for multiple levels of your company. top hubspot service hub alternatives customer service automation software is transforming how companies deliver a+ customer experiences. here are the most notable hubspot service hub alternatives. hubspot service hub vs. zendesk hubspot service hub vs. helpscout hubspot service hub vs. groove hubspot service hub vs. freshdesk hubspot service hub vs. intercom 7notable hubspot integrations 7notable hubspot integrations one of the best parts of hubspot is how many integrations you get access to. there are many platforms you can use with hubspot in the following categories: email productivity live chat connector customer success events & webinars social media ecommerce advertising abm video calling sales lead generation analytics and data content source: hubspot here are some of the most notable hubspot integrations. databox databox is a business analytics that pulls all data into one location. users can build comprehensive reports from various data sources, giving full visibility of all the metrics that matter. there are many ways you can integrate your hubspot with databox. learn more from these resources: the hubspot-databox integration overview the hubspot marketing hub-databox integration the hubspot sales hub/crm-databox integration surveymonkey surveymonkey is an online survey solution that makes creating and distributing surveys easy. they also provide software for marketing, human resources, and customer experience teams. here are some resources to learn more about managing integration between hubspot and surveymonkey: the hubspot-surveymonkey integration overview use hubspot’s integration with surveymonkey salesforce salesforce is a leading crm solution, and it works perfectly with hubspot. you can learn more about the integration by reading these resources: the hubspot-salesforce integration overview install the hubspot-salesforce integration typeform typeform is another leading online survey solution, but they also specialize in online form building. used by top companies, it’s not surprising that it’s a leading name in saas. check out these resources about the integration: the hubspot-typeform integration hubspot-typeform integration options drift drift is one of the best software solutions for conversational marketing. they provide live chat, video, email, and other automation tools. here are some resources about integrating your drift with hubspot: the hubspot-drift integration how to connect drift to hubspot linkedin sales navigator linkedin sales navigator is an excellent tool for your sales teams that is worth the price. when you connect it with your hubspot, your team becomes unstoppable. review the basics of this integration in these resources: the hubspot-linkedin sales navigator integration overview use hubspot’s integration with linkedin sales navigator slack slack is a collaboration tool that helps teams collaborate and stay connected in real time. it’s one of the most powerful business communication solutions. here’s what you need to know about integrating it with hubspot: the hubspot-slack integration overview connect hubspot and slack gmail gmail is a leading email service that works perfectly with hubspot. learn more about the integration in these resources: the hubspot-gmail integration overview connect your inbox to hubspot mailchimp mailchimp is a top choice for marketing automation, specializing in email marketing. to see how it works with hubspot, check out these resources: the hubspot-mailchimp integration overview connect your mailchimp account to hubspot shopify shopify is a go-to ecommerce platform that helps users build online stores and manage everything from products and inventory to shipping and payments. here’s what you need to know about the hubspot-shopify integration: the hubspot-shopify integration overview use hubspot’s shopify integration 8conclusion 8conclusion now that you have a solid understanding of hubspot and each of their tools and features for every tier, you can see exactly how it can take your business to the next level. most importantly, you can visualize how all areas of your business – marketing, sales, and service – work together to deliver the best customer experience. customer centric businesses win big. they're 60 percent more profitable than companies that don't focus on the customer. and those companies that provide a superior customer experience earn 5.7 times more revenue than their competitors who are falling behind in creating good customer experiences. with the right business software, you're well equipped to put the customer first. additionally, you can see how integrations work with the tools you currently use. hubspot is quick to implement and easy to set up. when you get all your software tools working together, you unify your entire organization. that’s the ultimate goal of any business looking for software: to bring their teams together and build frictionless processes for maximum efficiency. hubspot is the ultimate solution for building an inbound organization and creating a sustainable flywheel model for your business. with hubspot, you’re not just setting yourself up for success. you’re going to grow better. ready to demo the hubspot platform? let's chat! let's do a deep dive on all the essential tools you get with each hubspot package – marketing hub, sales hub, service hub, crm, and cms. our inbound specialists are ready to demonstrate how you can customize your hubspot account to drive your business. services marketing design sales pricing company about us customer testimonials careers contact resources blog resources the inbound glossary are you lost? (866) 995-8720 3030 n. rocky point dr. w. suite 600 tampa, florida 33607 facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube messenger © 2020 bluleadz, all rights reserved. privacy policy.