home politics cltv mediabites search this site: search login | register username: * password: * forgot password? remember my login on this computer politics 3/27/20 6:10am read time: 1 minute comments what happened to trump's big ventilator deal? depends on who you ask the administration was supposed to announce a deal to produce 80,000 ventilators on wednesday. now trump's backing off. by susie madrak according to this story in the new york times this morning, there are several contradictory reports about why the administration suddenly halted plans to have gm retool a plant to produce as many as 80,000 ventilators. some sources told the times fema needed more time to see whether the billion-dollar cost was prohibitive. (it was a lot less than the tax breaks they just gave to real estate developers, by the way.) they also claim an initial promise that the joint venture between gm and ventec life systems could quickly turn out 20,000 ventilators had shrunk to 7,500. but gm says the only thing missing was "clarity from the government about how many ventilators they needed — and who would be paid to build them." at the center of the discussion about how to ramp up the production of ventilators is jared kushner, the president’s son-in-law and a senior white house aide, who has told people that he was called in two weeks ago by vice president mike pence to produce more coronavirus test kits and who has now turned his attention to ventilators. he has been directing officials at fema in the effort. two officials said the suggestion to wait on the general motors offer came from col. patrick work, who is working at fema. some government officials expressed concern about the possibility of ordering too many ventilators, leaving them with an expensive surplus. a spokeswoman for fema said colonel work presented information on each contract in such meetings but did not make any recommendations. a white house spokesman declined to comment. in other words, fubar. while people are dying. and jared is adding his own special touch, easily identified by the trademark shifting of blame. way to go, guys! tags: administration, col. patrick work, fema, gm, jared kushner, mike pence, trump, ventec life systems facebook twitter pinterest flipboard email can you help us out? for 16 years we have been exposing washington lies and untangling media deceit. we work 7 days a week, 16 hours a day for our labor of love, but with rising hosting and associated costs, we need your help! could you donate $20 for 2020? please consider a one time or recurring donation of whatever amount you can spare. it will be greatly appreciated and help us continue our mission of exposing the real fake news! donate via: kindest donate via paypal or mail checks to: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 more c&l coverage mike pence gaslights cuomo's request for ventilators pence refused to answer governor cuomo. wow. mar 24, 2020 by john amato snl: trump pits kushner and bannon in apprentice-style showdown saturday night live's cold open featured jimmy fallon as jared kushner facing off against the grim reaper aka steve bannon in an apprentice-like showdown apr 15, 2017 by red painter meyers: when you put pressure on them, 'trump team stabs back like eighth grade girls' late night host seth meyers' riffs on the trump administration as mueller zeroes in on jared kushner. nov 23, 2017 by heather snl cold open has trump siding with kushner over bannon in apprentice-style showdown saturday night live's cold open featured jimmy fallon as jared kushner facing off with the grim reaper, steve bannon in an apprentice-like showdown where bannon ends up being kicked out of the white house. apr 15, 2017 by heather rep. ted lieu: jared kushner 'deliberately' lied on security forms rep. ted lieu says jared kushner lied on security forms about having contact with the russians and should resign from the trump administration. may 30, 2017 by john amato jared kushner's covid-19 shadow task force creating chaos at white house first we had rudy giuliani run a shadow government in ukraine to dig up dirt for trump...and now this. mar 19, 2020 by john amato comments we welcome relevant, respectful comments. any comments that are sexist or in any other way deemed hateful by our staff will be deleted and constitute grounds for a ban from posting on the site. please refer to our terms of service (revised 3/17/2016) for information on our posting policy. latest fox and friends pretends trump is sympathetic to ny's need for ventilators. ainsley earhardt completely re-words dear leader's response to gov. cuomo's plea for 30,000 ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by aliza worthington trump 'doesn't believe' we don't need so many ventilators good to know, stable genius! mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump admits his 'issues' with michigan's woman governor are affecting covid aid what the hell, donald. grow up and do your job. mar 27, 2020 by john amato trump's 'easter' schedule is all about the brunch money of course trump's hotels have a profit center around the after-church easter buffets. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum jimmy kimmel interviews joe biden about the coronavirus crisis "speed matters," biden said about trump's response. mar 27, 2020 by susie madrak view all » latest from cltv governor cuomo's henry v speech: 'we will tell our grandchildren and shed a tear' andrew cuomo speaks to new york national guard troops in a speech that will long be remembered. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum fox & friends revisionist history of trump's denial that new york needs ventilators fox & friends lies about what trump said just the night before with sean hannity about new york's need for ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by heather trump to hannity: 'i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators' "you know, you go to major hospitals, sometimes they have 2 ventilators." says stable genius. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump whines to hannity about governor whitmer of course the strong woman governor is a problem for donald. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum tucker carlson attacks the media for reporting on the dangers of trump promoting untested covid-19 treatments fox's tucker carlson goes after the media for daring to report on trump's dangerous rhetoric promoting experimental coronavirus treatments. mar 27, 2020 by heather visit cltv » stay connected facebook twitter flipboard feeds daily newsletter our daily top picks right to your inbox email name name="b_1b79560977ef0d50a412db2c8_d4904be7bc" tabindex="-1" value=""> staff editor & publisher john amato managing editor karoli kuns associate editors aliza worthington frances langum heather nicole belle susie madrak contributors chris capper li... dale merrill david ed scarce jenn budd newshound ellen red painter webmaster jamie support c&l or by snail mail: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 ©2020 crooks and liars footer about us feeds contact terms of service privacy dmca search this site: search home cltv politics media bites entertainment activism sports tech green business yesteryear misc