wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » what are wordpress plugins? and how do they work? what are wordpress plugins? and how do they work? last updated on january 30th, 2017 by editorial staff 571 shares share tweet share pin often beginner users ask us what are wordpress plugins and how do they work? plugins are an important part of the wordpress ecosystem, and they are essential for building great websites using wordpress. in this beginners guide, we will explain what are wordpress plugins and how do they work? what are wordpress plugins? wordpress plugins are apps that allow you to add new features and functionality to your wordpress website. exactly the same way as apps do for your smartphone. there are more than 48,000 free plugins available right now on the wordpress.org plugin directory. thousands more are available from third-party websites like github. on top of that, there are also thousands of premium wordpress plugins that are sold by individual developers and companies like ourselves. in 2003, wordpress started as a simple tool to help you start a blog. over the years, it has evolved into a powerful content management system and application framework, thanks primarily to plugins. what can wordpress plugins do? wordpress plugins are small software apps that integrate and run on top of the wordpress software. this allows you to create almost any kind of website with wordpress (not just blogs). for example, you can: start an online store with wordpress using the woocommerce plugin create a job board with wordpress using the job manager plugin build a business directory with the best directory plugins for wordpress start a coupon website like retainmenot build your photography website using the envira gallery plugin create a wiki website using the knowledge base plugin start your own podcast website using wordpress … and tons more. there is a popular saying in the wordpress community, “there is a plugin for that”. no matter what you are trying to do on your wordpress site, it’s possible. if the feature is not available in default wordpress, then there is certainly a plugin available for that. there are wordpress plugins to improve seo, boost performance, add contact forms, social media buttons, create galleries, and so much more. plugins can be small and offer just one tiny little feature (like adding an image to sidebar). or they can also be quite large and act as their own platform as well (example: wordpress ecommerce plugins or wordpress membership plugins). more feature rich plugins can have their own addon plugins to extend them just like you would extend wordpress. how wordpress plugins work? wordpress is written in a way so that other developers can add their own code into it. the wordpress plugin api offers a robust set of hooks and filters which allow developers to modify existing wordpress functionality or add new functionality. wordpress also allows developers to store data in the wordpress database. plugins can utilize wordpress content types, taxonomies, and custom fields which allow users to store different types of content not just post and pages. each wordpress plugin installed on your site is registered in your wordpress database. you can activate and deactivate them at any time you want. upon each visit, wordpress connects to the database, loads the core software, and then loads your active plugins. all this code is processed on your server and then sent to user’s browser. how to find wordpress plugins and install them? you can find free wordpress plugins by visiting wordpress.org plugin directory or you can also find them directly from your wordpress admin area. simply head over to plugins » add new page and search by typing plugin name or functionality you want to add. wordpress will search the plugin directory and display the available plugins in a list. you need to review the results, and click on the install now button next to the plugin you want to install. however, search results inside the wordpress admin area are not always helpful because they are limited to free plugins only. most beginners find it difficult to decide which plugin is best for the job. another approach is to look for plugin recommendations and tutorials on sites like wpbeginner.com. we have a wordpress plugins section where you can find the best wordpress plugins that we have thoroughly tested and reviewed. you can also find wordpress plugins in our editor’s pick of the best wordpress plugins for business websites or checkout the plugins we are using on our website in the wpbeginner’s blueprint. more faqs about wordpress plugins i cannot see or install plugins on my wordpress blog? most probably you are using wordpress.com. you can only install wordpress plugins on self-hosted wordpress.org websites. see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. how many wordpress plugins are too many? a common misconception among users is that too many plugins can slow down their website. it is never too many plugins that are slowing down your site. it is always poorly coded plugins that degrade performance. for details see our guide on how many wordpress plugins should you install?. should i install plugins not tested with my wordpress version? sometimes authors of free plugins do not update their plugin files on each new wordpress release. simply because if it works, then they don’t feel the need to update it. for more on this topic, see our article on installing plugins not tested with your wordpress version. how to choose between free vs paid plugins? there are thousands of free plugins and there is a good chance that you can find a free plugin offering the same functionality as a paid plugin. if it works good for you, then use it. please keep in mind that free plugins are offered as they are, with no warranties, and no promise of support. plugin author can stop working on a plugin at anytime they want. if you feel you will be needing lots of support, and you want regular updates, then paid plugins do a much better job at it. we use a combination of both free and paid plugins on all our websites. how do i get support for free wordpress plugins? free wordpress plugins are offered without the promise of support. however, most good plugins offer limited free support for their plugins through the official wordpress support forums. simply visit the plugin page and click on the support tab to post your question. for more on this topic, we recommend you take a look at our guide on how to properly ask for wordpress support and get it. we hope this article helped you understand what are wordpress plugins and how do they work. you may also want to see our beginner’s guide on how to choose the best wordpress plugin. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 571 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 8 commentsleave a reply mark says: jul 10, 2019 at 9:00 pm this is not wp for beginners. i understand find, install, activate plugins of course simple. we dummies want to know where a plugin goes after all that so we can use it. i can see all my installed and active plugins. but use them? they are nowhere in sight. you forget, i don’t know this stuff. where are those plugins i know i’ve installed? is there a menu someplace? you left the most important part out! how do you find and use a plugin once it’s there! why no example? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 11, 2019 at 11:42 am each plugin has a different spot they could be located is why we don’t list that, some add a menu item under a section in your admin area while others create a new link in the main admin area. it depends on the type and size of the plugin for where the plugin author feels would be a good location to add the settings or if there are settings. reply ali says: jan 6, 2019 at 11:46 am supper nice and excellent work please keep it up.very helpful for every one i will recommend you to others. reply manish says: sep 18, 2018 at 12:13 am i have a question. if i use some paid theme plugin like sliders or visual composers, then can i develop my website in local environment, and upload it to production environment without installing any plugins. idea is to buy the licence once for premium themes that comes bundled with plugins and develop multiple sites using it, and upload without plugins. reply pearl says: nov 21, 2017 at 9:51 pm so i have to use wordpress sites to get the wordpress plugins? but is it possible to use a wordpress plugin in a newly developed software that is not found in wordpress? reply prince sajjad says: feb 1, 2017 at 6:44 am this is nice artical for new wordpress user,,,,,,,,,,,, i m also new in wordpress and liked your post…. reply gaurav khurana says: feb 1, 2017 at 5:21 am thanks for sharing. it would have been better if you would have focused in more detail on the how part. it was good but expecting more details. it would be great if taken an example of a simple plugin and explained technically as well reply charlie rowland says: jan 30, 2017 at 11:08 am so i have installed a few plugins such as a slide show making one and one that makes it possiable for full background screens i have them showing on left of my screen and i can open but it dosnt let me apply the work i have done reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.