wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » what is an xml sitemap? how to create a sitemap in wordpress? what is an xml sitemap? how to create a sitemap in wordpress? last updated on october 25th, 2019 by editorial staff 768 shares share tweet share pin are you wondering what is an xml sitemap, and how to add it to your wordpress website? an xml sitemap helps search engines easily navigate through your website content. it gives them a list of all your content in a machine-readable format. unlike a regular sitemap that is made for people, an xml sitemap is not typically visible to your website visitors. in this article, we will explain what is an xml sitemap, and how to easily create a sitemap in wordpress. what is an xml sitemap? an xml sitemap is a file that lists of all your website content in an xml format, so search engines like google can easily discover and index your content. back in the early 2000s, government websites used to have a link on their main pages, titled “sitemap”. this page usually contained a list of all the pages on that website. while some websites still have html sitemaps today, overall the usage of sitemaps have evolved. today sitemaps are published in an xml format instead of html, and their target audience is search engines and not people. basically, an xml sitemap is a way for website owners to tell search engines about all the pages that exist on their website. it also tells search engines which links on your website are more important than others, and how frequently you update your website. while xml sitemaps will not boost your search engine rankings, they allow search engines to better crawl your website. this means they can find more content and start showing it in search results thus resulting in higher rankings sometimes. why you need an xml sitemap? sitemaps are extremely important from a search engine optimization (seo) point of view. simply adding a sitemap does not affect search rankings. however, if there is a page on your site that is not indexed, then sitemap provides you a way to let search engines know about that page. sitemaps are extremely useful for when you first start a blog or create a new website because most new websites don’t have any backlinks. this makes it harder for search engines to discover all of their content. this is why search engines like google and bing allow new website owners to submit a sitemap in their webmaster tools. this allows their search engine bots to easily discover and index your content (more on this later). sitemaps are equally as important for established popular websites as well. they allow you to highlight which part of your websites are more important, which parts are more frequently updated, etc, so search engines can visit and index your content accordingly. this helps improve the overall visibility of your website in search engine rankings. how to create a sitemap in wordpress? there are several ways to create an xml sitemap in wordpress. we will show you two popular methods to create an xml sitemap in wordpress, and you can choose one that works best for you. method 1. creating an xml sitemap in wordpress using yoast seo the easiest way to create an xml sitemap in wordpress is by using the yoast seo plugin. it is the best wordpress seo plugin on the market offering you a comprehensive set of tools to optimize your blog posts for seo. first, you need to install and activate the yoast seo plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, go to seo » general page and switch to the ‘features’ tab. from here, you need to scroll down to the ‘xml sitemap’ option and make sure that it is turned on. next, click on the save changes button to store your changes. to verify that yoast seo has created an xml sitemap, you can click on the question mark icon next to the xml sitemap option on the page. after that, click on the ‘see the xml sitemap’ link to view your live xml sitemap generated by yoast seo. you can also find your xml sitemap by simply adding sitemap_index.xml at the end of your website address. for example: https://www.example.com/sitemap_index.xml yoast seo creates multiple sitemaps for different types of content. by default, it will generate sitemaps for posts, pages, author, and categories. if you run an online store using woocommerce, then it will also generate a sitemap for your products. however, when it comes to submitting the sitemap to search engines, you’ll only need to submit the main sitemap index file. we’ll show you how to do that later in this article. method 2. creating an xml sitemap in wordpress using google xml sitemaps plugin this method is recommended for users who don’t want to use yoast seo’s xml sitemaps feature. first, thing you need to do is install and activate the google xml sitemaps plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, the plugin automatically generates an xml sitemap for your website. you can view it by simply adding sitemap.xml to your website’s address. for example: https://www.example.com/sitemap.xml the plugin works out of the box for most blogs and business websites. however, you still need to review plugin settings to make sure that you are not missing anything. simply, go to settings » xml-sitemap page to configure plugin. at the top, the plugin will give you status information. it will notify you if the plugin is unable to ping any search engine. you can review the basic options where you can disable the plugin from notifying search engines, increase php memory limit, and more. the default settings would work for most wordpress hosting environments. next, you’ll see the additional pages section. from here you can manually add pages to your xml sitemap. this comes in handy if your website has static html pages not created by the wordpress cms. after that, you can adjust how the plugin assigns priority to posts. by default, it uses the number of comments to calculate a post’s priority. the next two sections of the plugin’s settings page allow you to include and exclude content from your wordpress sitemap. for example, if you run an ecommerce store, then you would want to include the ‘products’ content type to your sitemap. after that, you can adjust the frequency and priority of your sitemap contents. changing these values are considered as a hint by search engines, and they may choose to follow or ignore these tags based on their criteria. finally, don’t forget to click on the ‘update options’ button to save your changes. how to tell search engines about sitemaps? search engines are quite smart in finding a sitemap. whenever you publish new content, a ping is sent to google and bing to inform them about changes in your sitemap. however, we recommend that you submit the sitemap manually to ensure that search engines can find it. submitting your xml sitemap to google google search console is a free tool offered by google to help website owners monitor and maintain their site’s presence in google search results. adding your sitemap to google search console helps it quickly discover your content even if your website is brand new. first, you need to visit the google search console website and sign up for an account. after that, you will be asked to select a property type. you can choose a domain or a url prefix. we recommend choosing url prefix as it is easier to setup. enter your website’s url and then click on the continue button. next, you will be asked to verify ownership of the website. you will see multiple methods to do that, we recommend using the html tag method. simply copy the code on the screen and then go to the admin area of your wordpress website. from here, you need to install and activate the insert headers and footers plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to visit settings » insert headers and footers page and add the code you copied earlier in the ‘scripts in header’ box. don’t forget to click on the save button to store your changes. now, switch back to the google search console tab and click on the ‘verify’ button. google will check for verification code on your site and then add it to your google search console account. note: if the verification is unsuccessful, then please make sure to clear your cache and then try again. now that you have added your website, let’s add your xml sitemap as well. from your account dashboard, you need to click on the sitemaps from the left column. after that, you need to add the last part of your sitemap url under the ‘add new sitemap’ section and click the submit button. google will now add your sitemap url to your google search console. it will take google some time to crawl your website. after a while, you would be able to see basic sitemap stats. this information includes the number of links google found in your sitemap, how many of them got indexed, a ratio of images to web pages, and more. submitting your xml sitemap to bing similar to google search console, bing also offers bing webmaster tools to help website owners monitor their website in the bing search engine. to add your sitemap to bing, you need to visit the bing webmaster tools website and sign up for an account. once you have signed up, you can add your website under the ‘add new site’ section. on the next screen, you will be asked to enter your website details including the sitemap url. click on the submit button to continue. bing will now ask you to verify the ownership of your website and will show you several methods to do that. we recommend using the meta tag method. simply copy the meta tag line from the page and paste it on a blank text file on your computer. now go to your wordpress website and install and activate the insert headers and footers plugin to your website. upon activation, you need to visit settings » insert headers and footers page and add the code you copied earlier in the ‘scripts in header’ box. don’t forget to click on the save button to store your changes. how to utilize xml sitemaps for your website? now that you have submitted the xml sitemap to google, let’s take a look at how to utilize it for your website. first, you need to keep in mind that the xml sitemap does not improve your search rankings. however, it does help search engines find content, adjust crawl rate, and improve your website’s visibility in search engines. you need to keep an eye on your sitemap stats in google search console. it can show you crawl errors and the pages excluded from search coverage. below the charts, you can click on the tables to view actual urls excluded or not indexed by google. normally, google may decide to skip duplicate content, pages with no content or very little content, and pages excluded by your website’s robots.txt file or meta tags. however, if you have an unusually high number of excluded pages, then you may want to check your seo plugin settings to make sure that you are not blocking any content. we hope this article helped answer all your questions about xml sitemaps and how to create an xml sitemap for your wordpress site. you may also want to see our guide on how to quickly increase your website traffic with these actionable tips. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 768 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 221 commentsleave a reply harish nemade says: nov 30, 2019 at 10:48 am i have my site with only one post published, so is it necessary to submit a sitemap each time when i added a new article/post? and how often should i submit sitemap? reply wpbeginner support says: dec 2, 2019 at 11:48 am you only need to submit your sitemap once unless there is an error, it will update as you add posts. reply image earth travel says: oct 22, 2019 at 4:36 am great article! yt’s a pain that the yoast plugin (as with all plugins) are only offered on the wp’s business plan. i’ve been on the premium plan and not allowed to install plugins. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 22, 2019 at 10:11 am thank you, part of the confusion may be due to our articles being for wordpress.org sites which require hosting instead of the business plan on wordpress.com https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/self-hosted-wordpress-org-vs-free-wordpress-com-infograph/ reply sarah says: sep 20, 2019 at 7:20 am i am using the free yoast seo plugin but i am not seeing seo » xml sitemaps. any ideas? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: sep 20, 2019 at 9:49 am yoast has updated their interface so you should find it under seo>general>features at the moment. reply flyingvan says: sep 5, 2019 at 2:07 am thanks for this tutorial, i could activate the sitemap on my website thanks to you. mat reply wpbeginner support says: sep 5, 2019 at 9:26 am you’re welcome, glad our article could be helpful reply sara says: aug 24, 2019 at 5:51 am hello, recently i added the sitemap for my website. but, while checked with the tool, it’s showing, no sitemap is added. why it’s showing like this. i added yoast seo plugins. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 26, 2019 at 10:25 am it could be their caching or if your site has caching that you haven’t cleared it could be part of the issue. reply jishnu.m says: jul 26, 2019 at 9:44 am hi, i have a problem with sitemap submitting….i am using yoast seo when i submit a sitemap to google webmaster it says “couldn’t fetch”…….. but i have successfully submitted sitemap to bing and yandex without any errors …what to do please help me reply wpbeginner support says: jul 29, 2019 at 11:01 am for an error like this, you may need to reach out to yoast’s support to see their recommended troubleshooting for specifically google not being able to crawl your sitemap. reply sajol fuad says: may 29, 2019 at 2:30 pm i am really happy to get this article about sitemap. i am using yoast seo for sitemaps. some seo auditor is saying that i should improve it immediately. but google search console is showing a green success and assuring that all is ok. can you please suggest me what should i do right now? thanks for the article.. reply wpbeginner support says: may 30, 2019 at 10:15 am we’re using the yoast sitemap without any issues at the moment. if you would prefer what the auditor wants then you could certainly try that if you wanted. reply charles harris says: apr 8, 2019 at 3:42 pm i have yoast seo but xml sitemaps does not appear on the menu, which indeed looks very different from yours. any suggestions as to how to find it? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 9, 2019 at 11:28 am for the current yoast interface, the sitemap options are under seo>general>features reply charles harris says: apr 9, 2019 at 12:47 pm thanks – got it now. reply joseph says: mar 10, 2019 at 10:55 am i need some help please, some pages on my website are not showing on sitemap.xml i entered it manually to google console, it showed an error that the sitemap format is html and that i should change the format how do i change sitemap format, please? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 11, 2019 at 12:00 pm if you’re using a caching plugin you may want to try to disable it to see if it could be a conflict between yoast and the caching plugin you’re using. reply ravi says: feb 15, 2019 at 8:57 am hi, awesome tutorial, i did same as your instruction and working fine. but there’s a problem with this, check out the details. my website is yahoonewsz.com and when i type “www.example.com/sitemap_index.xml”, it works fine but it says page not found when typed “example.com/sitemap_index.xml”. why? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 15, 2019 at 10:32 am you may want to check with your hosting provider that there is not a setting preventing the non www version from redirecting properly reply arun dixit says: jan 27, 2019 at 7:32 am thanks for your best tutorial! i recently have a wordpress blog and have created xml sitemap using yoast seo, according to this tutorial in previous month. yesterday i happend to see my xmlsitemap file at my wp-admin. there are only 5-6 lines which covers my new posts only. what about my old posts? is there any problem? and how come i know that there is any problem? because i have more than dozen posts till now. kindly let me know. arun dixit reply wpbeginner support says: jan 28, 2019 at 2:47 pm you may want to clear your caching and reach out to yoast if your sitemap is refusing to update your older posts if you’re not excluding them. reply darko loncar says: jan 10, 2019 at 3:46 am i am using all in one seo pack plugin. if i download yoast’s wordpress seo plugin should i use both? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 10, 2019 at 11:42 am no, we would not recommend having multiple seo plugins active as they can conflict with each other. reply kirti goyal says: dec 27, 2018 at 5:41 am thanks for sharing this information! one thing i want to know is that whether after every single update in pages, posts or change within a post, we need to submit the sitemap??? looking forward to hearing from you. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 27, 2018 at 10:08 am you should not need to resubmit your sitemap as long as google does not run into any errors with your sitemap and with the method from our article it should over time update your sitemap. reply viraj says: sep 11, 2018 at 2:38 pm please guide me to make a news sitemap for google news submission. reply luke says: jul 27, 2018 at 6:59 am i followed these steps but search console is giving me a 404 on the sitemap. i never had such problems submitting sitemaps reply mohammed says: jul 24, 2018 at 6:07 am in my website, i generated sitemap using this tutorial, however i want to remove one particular non-existent url from the sitemap as it’s giving 404 error and google adsense is showing crawl error. how do i remove one particualr url from sitemap and ask google to stop crawling that url? reply ernest says: jul 9, 2018 at 12:24 am i see some websites have multiple sitemaps. is it really necessary? reply dibyajyoti says: jul 22, 2019 at 2:40 pm not really. but some large website for multiple purpose . reply greeshma says: jun 6, 2018 at 12:44 pm is sitemaps still relevant in 2018? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 7, 2018 at 12:35 pm hi greeshma, yes, they are. reply pranita deshpande says: jun 6, 2018 at 2:22 am my site has been verified but can’t find site map near to it .what to do for it ? reply cher says: jun 4, 2018 at 2:08 pm i did your step for the sitemap. awesome! also, for my robots.txt file i have the following, should i change that first line of sitemap to what yoast says? i am not even sure where i got that old sitemap from but don’t want to mess anything up. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 5, 2018 at 12:19 pm hi cher, yes, if you are using yoast seo, then you should add yoast seo sitemap. reply jude says: jun 2, 2018 at 2:28 am hi. very helpful information. i want to ask if it is okay to submit my site to other webmasters like bing, yandex and others. thanks so much. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 3, 2018 at 11:54 pm hi jude, yes, it is ok. reply jude says: jun 4, 2018 at 9:24 am thanks so much. i can’t find my sitemap code in yoast. i also can’t verify my site on other search console like yandex and bing. (i got cannot verify) reply daguah says: mar 26, 2018 at 10:14 pm which social plugin do you use to show the number of shares? reply jude says: jun 4, 2018 at 9:40 am hi. you can use share count or sassy social share reply anshuman konwar says: mar 26, 2018 at 11:30 am thank you sir, this article is very helpful reply william says: mar 8, 2018 at 4:29 am is there any one who can help me to change sitemap.xml to some new url like sitmap_page_xml reply leo august says: feb 22, 2018 at 2:31 pm yoast seo must have been updated because the check boxes are now sliders – at least on my site. when i enable the stiemap function, then click the link to view the site map, i get a 404 not found error. did i do something wrong? reply rachael says: jan 15, 2018 at 7:50 pm really helpful article! i have just having trouble when it comes to viewing my site map, it’s coming up with 404 error and i’m not sure why? reply john says: jan 3, 2018 at 7:53 am hey, there’s nothing like seo>xml sitemap in my wp dashboard. does this feature work on the premium version of yoast seo only? please help! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 3, 2018 at 9:21 pm hi john, it works with free version as well. you will need to enable ‘advanced settings pages’. go to seo » dashboard page and then click on ‘features’ tab. scroll down to advanced settings page section and click to enable them. don’t forget to click on the save changes button. after reload you will see new menu items in under seo menu. hope this helps. reply dotun says: mar 8, 2018 at 10:44 am hello, i still cant see the xml sitemap on my wp dashboard. what can i do? reply rozi says: apr 3, 2018 at 1:46 pm having the same exact problem. this option does not appear anywhere on my wordpress dashboard. were you able to get any help with this? awais says: jun 20, 2018 at 12:37 pm there is not sitemap option, please help, in fact if i go on “mysite.com/sitemap_index.xml” there i can find the sitemap but settings are not in my dashboard. reply uphoria says: nov 12, 2018 at 9:25 am under seo > general > features, down by where it says xml sitemaps, click on the question mark to expand some text. click on see the sml sitemap. then, you can add the url for your sitemap to the google search console. annissa says: nov 17, 2018 at 12:25 pm uphoaria, not all heroes wear capes, my friend. thank you!!! after an hour of trying to figure this out, this was immensely helpful! craig wambusii says: nov 15, 2017 at 9:43 am after implying the details as clearly elaborated in the blog within a month i saw the changes in my rankings this trick works no hassle. there is a great improvement in my seo optimization ranking. reply prakash dayani says: nov 5, 2017 at 1:26 pm thank you for putting this up nicely, i have one question though for which i need help. if once i have submitted a sitemap to google and i also have my yoast seo completely configured, then on adding new content will yoast only update the sitemap or will it automatically submit it to google as well? or is it that i should submit the sitemap manually to google every time there is new content. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 5, 2017 at 10:35 pm hi prakash, the sitemap generated by yoast seo automatically updates itself. you only need to submit your sitemap to google once. however, if you move your website to a new address, then you will need to resubmit your sitemap. reply andrea maria says: nov 3, 2017 at 8:01 am a site map is a kind of interactive table of contents, in which each listed item links directly to its counterpart sections of the web site. reply sofia says: oct 17, 2017 at 7:12 am i have submitted my site map to google but still not getting organic traffic what should i do now??? plzz help me reply desiree says: oct 5, 2017 at 7:42 am useful manual. my sitemap only shows the homepage, and not the 29 other pages of my website. any ideas on how i can solve this? thanks. reply nizam says: sep 28, 2017 at 1:42 pm great post for beginners. thanks. i have a question – my site has a subdomain if i create a sitemap for the subdomain will it be part of the whole site (root plus subdomain?) reply ryan says: sep 18, 2017 at 11:47 pm my yoast seo xml sitemaps won’t work with google search console. “we encountered an error while trying to access your sitemap. please ensure your sitemap follows our guidelines and can be accessed at the location you provided and then resubmit.” any ideas? reply geraldine says: aug 20, 2017 at 12:38 pm ok- your site is my new favorite best friend on the internet!! thank you sooo much! i’m beginning to feel like a dangerous beginner thanks for the great tutorials… reply charmaine says: jul 21, 2017 at 10:01 am a big thanks, guys! this guide helped me through. reply rebecca says: jul 18, 2017 at 4:05 pm excellent tutorial thank you reply bhavika patel says: jul 6, 2017 at 5:54 am thank you so much for your instructions. it was very useful for me.i did all steps and i could put my site map on webmaster tool and also my blog pages only because of your helpful article. reply mad says: jun 18, 2017 at 12:50 pm error while submitting sitemap generated by yoast: sitemap_index.xml sitemap is html your sitemap appears to be an html page. please use a supported sitemap format instead. reply sola mathew says: jun 12, 2017 at 10:54 am wow. i just added my site map to google. thanks so much. reply bruna says: may 28, 2017 at 1:18 pm hello, thank you for the detailed article, finally i understood how it works! i think i did all correctly, but when i submitted the sitemap i received an error from webmaster tool, saying: “we encountered an error while trying to access your sitemap. please ensure your sitemap follows our guidelines and can be accessed at the location you provided and then resubmit.” certainly the location is correct, and their guidelines don’t give me a clue of what is happening any idea? thank you in advance. bruna reply wpbeginner support says: may 29, 2017 at 12:28 pm hi bruna, try adding your website without www prefix. google treats www and non-www as two separate domains. reply irfan says: sep 3, 2017 at 7:23 am hi to wpbeginner team. 1st of all thank you for your excellent work and helping beginner in such a great way. i am using all in one seo and came to know you use for your sites yoast seo. can you guide me how do i shift to yoast without messing up my sure?? thank you in advance reply wpbeginner support says: sep 3, 2017 at 11:59 pm hi irfan, yoast seo actually has a tool inside the plugin that will help you migrate. ammad ali says: apr 13, 2017 at 9:48 am i am trying to create sitemap and i created a lot of sitemap using different plugins but when i click on sitemap it says nothing found. how to solve this issue reply matt says: apr 12, 2017 at 4:39 pm under sitemaps, for webpages, it’s saying 104 were submitted, but only 14 were indexed. yoast seo gave me 3 sitemaps which i added. reply zinah says: mar 27, 2020 at 1:28 am thank you.it helped me to do my xml sitemap reply riwan nair says: apr 12, 2017 at 10:53 am how xml sitemap will show to user? reply võ điền says: apr 10, 2017 at 11:26 am great! thank you for this tutorial! reply akin says: mar 12, 2017 at 12:42 pm i’m having lots of duplicate content on my website. i’m thinking that i didn’t fix the yoasts seo very well. how can i remove them? thanks in advance reply wpbeginner support says: mar 12, 2017 at 3:54 pm hey akin, please see our guide on how to install and setup yoast seo plugin. it will help you properly setup yoast seo plugin. reply christopher ebling says: mar 2, 2017 at 5:53 pm i only get options that say dashboard search console and go premium i don’t see site map as an option how do i get it to do the site map so i have to pay the 97$ reply wpbeginner support says: mar 3, 2017 at 5:09 pm hey christopher, the option is moved to the advanced settings pages. please see our updated guide on setting up yoast seo plugin and check step 3 which shows how to enable advanced settings and then step 9 which shows how to enable sitemaps. reply deepika bisht says: feb 21, 2017 at 5:23 pm yoast seo best way to create a good sitemap for a wordpress blog. thanks for share it. reply mahmoud says: feb 20, 2017 at 3:04 am i already have my sitemap xml , but i need to regenerate it . what is the best way to do that ? reply chittara says: jan 3, 2017 at 6:47 am omg it helped me loads and loads…thanks a lot reply « 1 2 3 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) wp coupons and deals coupon get 30% off on wp coupons and deals wordpress coupon plugin. siteground coupon get 70% off siteground wordpress hosting. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.