start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising brain smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 what is creativity? we all have it, and need it leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email do you think of yourself as a creative person? do you play the drums or do watercolor paintings? perhaps compose songs or direct plays? can you even relate to any of these so called ‘creative’ experiences? growing up, did you ever have that ‘artistic’ sibling or friend who excelled in drawing, playing instruments or literature? and you maybe wondered why you can’t even compose a birthday card greeting–or that drawing stick figures is the furthest you’ll ever get to drawing a family portrait. many people have this common assumption that creativity is an inborn talent; only a special group of people are inherently creative, and everyone else just unfortunately does not have that special ability. you either have that creative flair or instinct, or you don’t. but, this is far from the truth! so what is creativity? table of contents what is creativity? how creativity works can i be creative? start connecting the dots what is creativity? creativity needs an intention another misconception about the creative process is that you can just be in a general “creative” state. real creativity isn’t about coming up with “eureka!” moments for random ideas. instead, to be truly creative, you need to have a direction. you have to ask yourself this question: “what problem am i trying to solve?” only by knowing the answer to this question can you start flexing your creativity muscles. often times, the idea of creativity is associated with the ‘right’ brain, with intuition and imagination. hence a lot of focus is placed on the ‘right’ brain when it comes to creativity. but, to get the most out of creativity, you need to utilize both sides of your brain–right and left–which means using the analytical and logical part of your brain, too. this may sound surprising to you, but creativity has a lot to do with problem solving. and, problem solving inherently involves logic and analysis. so instead of throwing out the ‘left’ brain, full creativity needs them to work in unison. for example, when you’re looking for new ideas, your ‘left’ brain will guide you to a place of focus, which is based on your objective behind the ideas you’re searching for. the ‘right’ brain then guides you to gather and explore based on your current focus. and when you decide to try out these new ideas, your ‘right’ brain will give you novel solutions outside of the ones you already know. your ‘left’ brain then helps you evaluate and tune the solutions to work better in practice. so, logic and creativity actually work hand in hand, and not one at the expense of the other. advertising creativity is a skill at the end of the day, creativity is a skill. it’s not some innate or natural born talent that some have over others. what this means is that creativity and innovation can be practiced and improved upon systematically.a skill can be learned and practiced by applying your strongest learning styles. want to know what your learning style is? try this test. a skill can be measured and improved through a feedback loop, and can be continuously upgraded over time by regular practice. through regular practice, your creativity goes through different stages of proficiency. this means that you can become more and more creative! if you never thought that creativity was relevant to you, or that you don’t have a knack for being creative… think again! you can use creativity in any aspect of your life. in fact you should use it, as it will allow you to to break through your usual loop, get you out of your comfort zone, and inspire you to grow and try new things. creativity will definitely give you an edge when you’re trying to solve a problem or come up with new solutions. how creativity works let me break another misconception about creativity, which is that it’s only used to create completely “new” or “original” things. again, this is far from the truth. because nothing is ever completely new or original. everything, including works of art, doesn’t come from nothing. everything derives from some sort of inspiration. that means that creativity works by connecting things together in order to derive new meaning or value.from this perspective, you can see a lot of creativity in action. in technology, apple combines traditional computers with design and aesthetics to create new ways to use digital products. in music, a musician may be inspired by various styles of music, instruments and rhythms to create an entirely new type of song. all of these examples are about connecting different ideas, finding common ground amongst the differences, and creating a completely new idea out of them. advertising can i be creative? the fact is, that everyone has an innate creative ability. despite what most people may think, creativity is a skill that everyone can learn and hone on. it’s a skill with huge leverage that allows you to generate enormous amounts of value from relatively little input. how is that so? you’ll have to start by expanding your definition of creativity. ironically, you have to be creative and ‘think out of the box’ with the definition! creativity at its heart, is being able to see things in a way that others cannot. it’s a skill that helps you find new perspectives to create new possibilities and solutions to different problems. so, if you encounter different challenges and problems that need solving on a regular basis, then creativity is an invaluable skill to have.let’s say, for example, that you work in sales. having creativity will help you to look for new ways to approach and reach out to potential customers. or perhaps you’re a teacher. in this role, you have to constantly look for new ways to deliver your message and educate your students. start connecting the dots excited to start honing your creativity? here at lifehack, we’ve got a wealth of knowledge to help you get started. we understand that creativity is a matter of connecting things together in order to derive new meaning or value. so, if you want to learn how to start connecting the dots, check out these tips: advertising how to train your brain to be creative how to be creative when you’ve hit a creative block 30 tips to rejuvenate your creativity featured photo credit: rawpixel via unsplash.com advertising share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to train your brain to be creative how to use the learning style quiz to accelerate your learning how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) advertising advertising brain advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how systems thinking makes you a smarter person leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email there are several perspectives on the term systems thinking. the discipline goes beyond a collection of tools and techniques. a lot of individuals are fascinated by tools like brainstorming tools, structural thinking tools, dynamic thinking tools, as well as computer-based tools. they believe the system thinking tools can make them smarter and productive. however, it goes beyond that as systems thinking is more strategic and sensitive to the environment we find ourselves. so what is systems thinking and why is it good for you? table of contents what is systems thinking? characteristics of systems thinking how to use systems thinking how to foster learning with systems thinking final thoughts more to help you think smarter what is systems thinking? systems thinking is a diagnostic tool that can help you to assess problems before taking action. it helps you to ask questions before arriving at conclusions. it prevents you from making an assumption, which is the lowest level of knowledge. a systems thinker is curious, compassionate, and courageous. the systems thinking approach incorporates the act of seeing the big picture instead of seeing in parts. it recognizes that we are connected, and there are diverse ways to solve a problem. characteristics of systems thinking systems thinking can help you in analyzing the connections between subsystems and understanding their potentials to make smarter decisions. in a soccer team, the elements are the coach, players, the field, and a ball. the interrelationships are strategies, communications among players, and game rules. the goal is to win, have fun and exercise. we all belong to several systems and subsystems. some characteristics of systems thinking include: issue is important the issue is familiar with well-known patterns attempts have been made to resolve the issue. given these characteristics, systems thinking goes beyond an operational tool; it is a strategic approach and a philosophy. how to use systems thinking here’re 3 ways you can use systems thinking: 1. understand how the system works and use feedback points the first task is to know what system is all about and identify the leverage points or feedbacks that influence its functioning. this is what will help in adjusting the system. advertising if you want the system to be productive, enhance the feedback points. if you want it to be less productive, exhaust the same points. a good example is that of a bathtub. the leverage points are the faucet and the drain. if you forget to close the drain, having turned on the water, the water will never stop flowing, and the tub will never overflow. if you want more water, close the drain while you turn the water. if otherwise, turn the faucet off and open the drain. you can apply this to your personal development. once you discover the feedback points in your life, find your leverage or feedback points, then enhance those points. if you want to be fit, get a trainer, find a mentor, or eat healthy foods. 2. discover the patterns, structure, and events trends and patterns could be compared to clues for a crossword puzzle. as you aspire to enhance the system, trends and patterns offer you hints and cause to shift your paradigm. usually, they can direct you to unusual and unexpected aspects, to ideas, people, or places you have never thought about. smart people watch out for trends and patterns so they can be conversant with changes. you can view the world from 3 different perspectives: i. the event perspective if you consider the world from an event perspective, the best you can do is to be smarter is ‘react’. you tend to be smarter by reacting quickly, becoming more lighter on your feet, and flexible as you advance through life. so how do you view the world from an event perspective? you ask a question like, ‘what happened?’. there is the possibility of becoming more aware and seeing more at this level. an excellent technique to achieve this is by telling a story to a group. if you can see beyond each event, see beyond patterns and trends, you will be empowered to anticipate, predict, and plan. advertising ii. pattern perspective to view the world from a pattern perspective, you need to ask, ‘what has been happening?’ it is most times difficult to see the actual size of an iceberg (underlying structures that are the causes of events). the waterline dissects what’s visible from what’s not visible. a systems thinker does not assume from what’s visible only; he or she seeks to know what has been happening. take a look at this video to understand more about the iceberg theory: iii. the structure perspective to view the world from a structure perspective, you need to ask, ‘what is causing issues?’ the answers will be the factors and forces responsible. if you find yourself in a traffic jam, you don’t blame the next driver as a smart person; you could ask, ‘what’s been causing the traffic jam? the usual answers could be a decaying road surface, careless driver, or high speed, but that would be the same things identified as trends. what makes the structure perspective different from others. the structure is what propels your energy. it is what affects happenings. a systems thinkers make deductions based on internal structures to arrive at a conclusion 3. people problems vs system problems several issues ranging from security breaches, product flaws, poverty, to transportation inefficiencies are systemic. advertising even when you misbehave, there is usually an internal system to blame. if you are not productive in your business, it may not be caused by you. there may be a system that you need to enhance. do you remember our feedback points? as soon as you assess the system, you can focus on people. is a new hire causing lag in the packaging process? is poor communication affecting the team’s performance? reallocating job roles may be a perfect leverage point. in the traffic jam example, there could be a system-based solution such as installing traffic lights and subsequently enforcing traffic laws in the area to penalize reckless drivers. how to foster learning with systems thinking systems thinking helps you to appreciate the interrelationships of people, organizations, policies, decisions, ideas, and relationships. peter m senge propounded five disciplines that foster learning in your dna- whether you are leading an organization, starting a venture, or working as a freelancer.[1] 1. gain mastery you can take online courses, attend conferences, read blog articles and books, listen to podcasts, converse with leaders within and beyond your industry, watch documentaries, learn from your team, and stretch yourself by improving your skills. 2. discover your assumptions and biases there was this parable of four blind men who made different assumptions about an elephant. their assumptions and biases hinder them from understanding how the animal looks like. biases can rob you of innovation and prevent you from experiencing personal growth. to become aware of your biases, you have to take an internal trip and engage breakthrough thinking. 3. establish your vision systems grind to a halt when the goal or mission is not defined. you will not have the motivation to complete the online course if you don’t know why you subscribe in the first place. advertising is it for career advancement? to up your game or to gain general knowledge? vision inspires you. 4. learn in groups there is power in shared learning. there is a solidification of understanding when you learn in a group. you can have the lessons etched in your long term memory. for instance, you can join learning groups where information is shared weekly. 5. think in systems systems thinking is about lifelong learning and improvement. it has also been linked to the iceberg principle, which affirms that visible events are insignificant compared to what’s visible. there’s more ice below the waterline than what you can see with your physical eyes. anytime you are battling with a challenge, think in systems. understand the details of the issue. discover your leverage points. assess, adapt, and keep improving your models. after all. if you meet a lion in the wild, you need to understand what you are facing. final thoughts you can foster systems thinking by modeling your own environment. participate in training, watch ted talks, and create time to connect with others. also, practice critical thinking instead of making assumptions before you make a decision. the more you think systems, the more you will become smarter and productive in every aspect of your life. more to help you think smarter how to train your brain to think fast and think smart 11 ways to think outside the box how to develop critical thinking skills and think clearer featured photo credit: olav ahrens røtne via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ peter senge: “systems thinking for a better world” – aalto systems forum 2014 share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to develop critical thinking skills and think clearer how to train your brain to think fast and think smart 5 cognitive biases that have kept you from achieving full potential advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to think smart (if you think you’re not smart enough) conscious mind vs subconscious mind: how to improve them? how to use your subconscious mind for true success what are the levels of the mind and how to improve them about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.