barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up answers what are the best apps for dog parents? share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest marissa rubenstein writer shares share tweet pin article updated may 2019! have you ever wanted to know if it’s okay that your dog just ate the guacamole off the counter? or maybe it’s 4am and your dog is throwing up and you wish you could speak to a vet asap? well, like everything else, there’s an app for that! we’ve rounded up the best dog-related apps that every pup parent needs. table of contents 1. because nothing says, “happy birthday/ christmas/ tuesday!” like your dog in a filter. 2. because you need to train your puppy (or your adult dog gets a little rusty). 3. because your pup and the neighborhood raccoon got in a tussle. 4. because you need to talk to a trainer about how to use that virtual clicker. 5. because you need to map your dog walk . 6. because you’re out-of-town and need a responsible dog walker and dog sitter. 7. because your dog got sick of all those selfies and ran away. 8. because your dog might go missing and you’ll need help finding them. 9. because you’re dying to know what your dog is up to when you’re not around. 10. because your dog likes to eat things that may or may not be edible. 11. because you’re more interested in scrolling through adoptable dogs than “datable” humans. 12. because your pup is the only vacation buddy that won’t stress you out. 13. because you’re on that vacation and your dog needs a place to burn off energy. 14. because you’ve been worried your dog might be lonely. 15. because you want an easy way to be an a+ dog parent and secretary. 16. because you’re a concerned pet parent… 1. because nothing says, “happy birthday/ christmas/ tuesday!” like your dog in a filter. view this post on instagram a post shared by barkbox (@barkbox) on dec 10, 2018 at 7:12pm pst say bark! price: free why you need it: do the filters on social media apps fail to capture your pup’s beauty and quirk? is your dog the muse of your holiday card every year? then it’s time for a photo/video app made especially for dogs! with say bark! you can create and send the best (and cutest!) greetings. this app lets you create and share animated cards starring your furry friend. it’s easy as 1-2-3: take a photo of your pup, add one of our fun filters and lip synced audio, then share your personalized message with the world! whether you’re trying to send season’s greetings to your parents or make your pup a social media sensation, say bark! is a must for every pup parent! 2. because you need to train your puppy (or your adult dog gets a little rusty). dogo – dog tricks & commands price: 7 day free trial why you need it: this app is like having a pocket-sized pup trainer! dogo has a customizable clicker for clicker training and step-by-step instructions for over 60 tricks and commands! with dogo, you can track your dog’s progress every day. plus, if you feel like you need some extra help, dogo experts are available daily to answer your tricky training questions! android user? find it here! ios is here! 3. because your pup and the neighborhood raccoon got in a tussle. pet first aid by american red cross price: $0.99 why you need it: at $0.99, it’s cheaper than a lot of the other pet first aid apps but still manages to have all the tools you might need in case an emergency strikes. you can locate the nearest vet hospital, learn to treat everything from allergic reactions to bleeding, and find out what’s just normal, crazy, puppy behavior. link for android users 4. because you need to talk to a trainer about how to use that virtual clicker. pet coach price: free why you need it: this app lets you talk to a vet, pet trainer, or whatever other pet professional you might need to talk to, anywhere, anytime. is your pup looking chubby? send a pet nutritionist a photo to find out if you need to get him onto a diet pronto. also did i mention this app is free? it’s free. link for android users 5. because you need to map your dog walk . tractivedogwalk price: free why you need it: the tractivedogwalk app is a great way to keep track of how much exercise your dog is really getting, although don’t be as bummed as i was when your “long walk” turns out to only be a mile and a half. link for android users. 6. because you’re out-of-town and need a responsible dog walker and dog sitter. rover – dog sitters and walkers price: free why you need it: rover handles all your pet care needs by connecting users to local pet sitters and dog walkers. services represented through rover include pet boarding, house sitting, day care, drop-in visits, and dog walking. plus, rover takes the headache out of arranging responsible pet care. through the app, you get adorable photo updates, gps tracking of your dog’s walk, an easy way to message sitters/walkers, and a secure way to book and pay. arranging dog walks is a cake walk with rover! link for android users. 7. because your dog got sick of all those selfies and ran away. whistle price: free for the app, tracker and monthly subscription is extra why you need it: in order for this app to be of any use you have to buy the tracker ($99.95) annnnd pay a monthly subscription fee. however, if your canine is a runner this seems incredibly worthwhile. you get an alert when your dog leaves the house and can track your dog in real time as they cavort around the neighborhood. link for android users. 8. because your dog might go missing and you’ll need help finding them. findshadow price: free why you need it: hopefully, you’ll never have to know what it’s like to lose your dog. but assuming you don’t have the above tagg tracker (or an equivalent piece of hardware), it’s not outside the realm of possibility. if your dog goes missing, the findshadow community will be there to help you find them with pre-made fliers, a database of lost and found dog photos, photo-matching technology, and more. plus, you can help other people reunite with their dogs through the app and sometimes watch them reunite in adorable reunion videos. link for android users. 9. because you’re dying to know what your dog is up to when you’re not around. furbo dog camera price: free (app requires a furbo camera for $199) why you need it: furbo answers the age-old question, “what do our dogs do when we’re no there!?” unlike other pet monitors, furbo is an interactive pet camera, so you can engage with your dog from across the pond or down the street. with its live hd video streaming, two-way audio, and app-controlled treat dispenser, you can see, talk, and even give treats to your dog when you’re away. the app will even send instant notifications when your dog barks! with furbo, your furry friend will always be a click away. link for android users 10. because your dog likes to eat things that may or may not be edible. ikibble free price: free why you need it: questioning the edibility of whatever your dog just ate off the floor? just whip out the ikibble, look up what she ate, and find out just how healthy it really is for her. 11. because you’re more interested in scrolling through adoptable dogs than “datable” humans. barkbuddy price: free why you need it: he’s smiley, a bit hairy, and really can’t wait to go home with you, and no it’s not that weird guy who just asked you if it hurt when you fell from heaven… it’s a fluffy puppy! barkbuddy lets you find single puppies near you who need a good home. browse through thousands of pup profiles and find your pawfect match. and it’s ridiculously, adorably, addicting! link for android users. 12. because your pup is the only vacation buddy that won’t stress you out. bringfido price: free why you need it: bringfido allows you to find pet friendly hotels, restaurants, parks, beaches, and tons more. you can also book your hotel, look up their pet policy, and use filters to find the hotels that would best fit your dog. super useful if you have a large dog, or are in a new town and want to grab dinner with your best furry friend. link for android users. 13. because you’re on that vacation and your dog needs a place to burn off energy. barkhappy price: free why you need it: find a dog park at anytime! from anywhere! and other dog-friendly venues! choose from over 20,000 dog parks and other places, get directions, and most importantly find out if that dog park has hooman bathrooms as well. link for android users. 14. because you’ve been worried your dog might be lonely. meet my dog price: free why you’ll need it: meet my dog helps you find furends to have playdates with near you. there’s also a foursquare-like function that allows you to “mark your territory” so other dogs and their owners know who the boss is in your area. link for android users. 15. because you want an easy way to be an a+ dog parent and secretary. petdiary price: free why you need it: petdiary is an easy, visual, way to monitor your dogs weight, medications, and whatever else comes to mind. you can also use it to jot down when your dog does something so adorable, you just want to remember it forever! or at least until you get a new phone. no ios version available. 16. because you’re a concerned pet parent… scout for pets price: free for 2 weeks, $25/month after that why you need it: this app makes it a breeze to communicate with your dog walker or pet sitter. manage your schedule, get notified when your walker or sitter arrives and leaves, view photos from your visit, see where your pet walked and much more. it’s great for you and even better for your sitter! for more, check out these articles! 15 gifts for the tech-obsessed friend who never unplugs 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers 7 stellar books that dog lovers won’t be able to put down 101 hipster inspired dog names 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans comments poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up marissa rubenstein writer 15 signs you're more into your dog's instagram than your own 15 of the best dog dads excelling at parenthood looking for a renaissance man? that's cool. here are 15 renaissance pugs 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go