home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog what is the best alcohol for the keto diet? september 13, 2019 by erin weiss 1 comment when you start a keto diet, you are doing it for your health. you probably want to drop some weight, help with fertility or even help to manage some chronic conditions. what you don’t want to do is stop living life all together. everyone needs balance in life and giving up alcohol on the keto diet isn’t totally necessary. if you pick the right options, you can find very low carb options to still let loose every now and then. i have been testing different drinks and have finally found the one best alcohol for keto dieters! i’m sure by now you’ve heard of the ever so famous drink called white claw? well if you have been hiding under a rock this past summer, white claw is is hard seltzer with low calories and low carbs! when i have social situations i usually stick to drinking white claws but i found a hack to white claw that makes them an even healthier option for keto dieters. keto white claw drink recipe we recently found a different version of white claw in the store that is called white claw pure. what white claw pure is is essentially the same as their regular flavors but no flavor. it’s pretty much just seltzer water with alcohol in it. i didn’t hate the flavor of the white claw pure by itself but i appreciate a tiny bit of flavor so i found a way to flavor it myself by using one single packet of true lemon or one of the other 3 flavors! keto white claw drink recipe – the keto claw ingredients: white claw pure true lemon, true lime, true orange or true grapefruit (1 packet) instructions: pour one white claw pure into a pint glass pour one true packet into the drink. you will see it fizz a little as it’s dissolving into the alcohol but that’s totally normal. i don’t even have to mix after pouring it in, it just dissolves and mixes in perfectly. nutrition: the nutrition for this drink is exceptional! now you can see why this is the best alcohol for keto dieters! this drink comes out to only 100 calories (per one can of white claw pure and 1 packet of true lemon) and less than 1 gram of net carbs! compare this to a bud light beer which has more calories and about 6.6 g of carbs. i’ll take this keto claw any day! oh and this keto claw has more alcohol than your typical bud light too. these drinks have 5% alcohol when a bud light beer has only 4.2%! win win win! side note… i think the below shirt explains me well. dog paws and white claws. i think i need this! filed under: keto diet, nutrition tagged with: best alcohol for keto, keto alcohol you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. comments erin weiss says september 13, 2019 at 4:08 pm so tasty!!! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in