skip to content menu a gaming blog where the monsters are a journey through online virtual worlds. “it’s not you, it’s me”: swtor and my waning interest. full disclosure: i was cautiously optimistic about swtor. i was very careful not to buy into the hype, but i thought some of the things they were doing could actually improve the genre (it’s bizarre that this has become so rare). so i pre-ordered early, got into early access on the first day, and i’ve… read more “it’s not you, it’s me”: swtor and my waning interest. february 10, 2012february 10, 2012 quinleave a comment the evolution of ‘raiding’ in mmorpgs: from scarcity to entitlement first, some context. i’ve been playing everquest a bit lately, on the time locked progression server known as fippy darkpaw. the notion behind time locked progression is that the server is opened without any of the 17 (yes, seventeen!) expansions unlocked. the idea is that as the content (read: raid bosses) is defeated a certain time period will pass, and… read more the evolution of ‘raiding’ in mmorpgs: from scarcity to entitlement june 15, 2011june 15, 2011 quinleave a comment welcome to not real worlds hi. welcome to not real worlds. you’ve stumbled over a blog about those crafty addictive beasts we now know by the awful acronym, mmorpgs. that is, massively multiplayer online roleplaying games. but if you’re here you probably already know that. firstly, my credentials: i’m a wandering mmo fiend and have played a wide range of games in the… read more welcome to not real worlds june 15, 2011june 15, 2011 quinleave a comment search for: recent posts “it’s not you, it’s me”: swtor and my waning interest. the evolution of ‘raiding’ in mmorpgs: from scarcity to entitlement welcome to not real worlds recent comments archives february 2012 june 2011 categories categories select category age of conan aion aoc eq eq2 everquest everquest2 lord of the rings online lotro mmo mmorpg mmorpgs mmos rift swtor ultima online war warhammer online world of warcraft wow meta register log in entries feed comments feed wordpress.com blog at wordpress.com. privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy