i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: banh pate chaud australian meat pie recipe where to eat modern affordable shabu shabu in tokyo tokyo travel modern tokyo shabu shabu...the gentle swish swish of thinly sliced meat through a boiling pot of stock. so simple and so good. posted february 18, 2020 by stephanie shabu shabu, or japanese hot pot, is a classic dish of thinly sliced meats and fresh vegetables simmered in broth and served with a bunch of dipping sauces. much like chinese hot pot, everything is cooked piece by piece at the table. lots of the shabu shabu places in tokyo can be kind of intimidating if you’ve never been to one. trying to decipher shabu menus might lead to your very own lost in translation moment where you end up playing a visual game of spot the difference in each photo. spoiler alert: they’re all basically cuts of meat differing in price depending on the cut and provenance/quality of the meat. probably the most intimidating thing about shabu shabu though, isn’t really the menu. it’s probably the fact that it can be astronomically expensive. they take meat seriously in japan and the cost of a high-end shabu shabu meal can reflect that. so, if you’re looking for a more affordable, modern, easy to eat, low key shabu place, here are a couple of suggestions! yamawarau omotesando yamawarau omotesando our first shabu shabu experience mike and i are kind of new to shabu. i mean, we’ve eaten millions of hot pots and nabes, but shabu is kind of a different creature. and because we never tried it before we didn’t really want to go to a super expensive place as our first experience. instead, we went to yamawarau omotesando. yamawarau is a little place in omotesando, on the second floor, hidden behind some modern japanese woodwork. everyone gets an individual pot and the entire menu is essentially courses. we went for lunch and it was busy and full of tourists. the lunch set came with your choices of meat, vegetables, and a bowl of rice. it was good but busy and a little too…popular. anyway, we enjoyed it and it kind of gave us a taste for shabu which led mike to discovering our current favorite shabu shabu lunch: shabu shabu let us. shabu shabu let us nakameguro shabu shabu let us nakameguro our current favorite shabu shabu in tokyo shabu shabu let us is a play on lettuce and they definitely live up to their name: there are a huge amount of vegetables that come with the meats. let us is a fairly new restaurant located in still cool nakameguro and they’re expanding rapidly. it’s pretty popular, but most of the people we saw there were locals having a leisurely lunch. like yamawarau, let us does individual 1 person 1 pot shabu shabu. the room is modern and fun with a huge wall of vegetables being grown at the back off the restaurant. each table has a pot and burner in front of each guest. the little pots are made of copper and are super cute and the variety of veggies you get is insane! there’s even a board up front that tells you which farms the vegetables come from. i loved it so much. there are eight different kinds of soup stocks to choose from and they have a help yourself sauce bar that has the classic ponzu, miso, and sesame sauce along with some unconventional ones like truffle oil and chinese mala spicy sauce. the lunch menus are super affordable and all of the meat is domestic japanese pork and beef. we loved it so much that we went twice during our trip. so good! leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website japanmust eatshabu shabutokyotravelwhere to eat chocolate chip cookie review: standard bakery co, portland, maineread chocolate chip cookie review: flour bakery, boston, massachusettsread the search for the best chocolate chip cookie in the worldread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved