skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me where i’ve been countries visited (189/197) north america: usa, canada, mexico, bahamas, haiti, costa rica, nicaragua, trinidad and tobago, barbados, dominica, st. lucia, st. vincent, grenada, cuba, belize, honduras, el salvador, guatemala, st. kitts and nevis, antigua south/latin america: colombia, peru, bolivia, brazil, suriname, guyana, argentina, uruguay, paraguay, chile europe: portugal, spain, france, germany, netherlands, denmark, norway, sweden, finland, estonia, poland, czech republic, slovakia, austria, switzerland, italy, vatican city, hungary, serbia, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, croatia, greece, slovenia, united kingdom, ireland, iceland, belgium, liechtenstein, luxembourg, albania, kosovo, macedonia, bulgaria, romania, moldova, latvia, lithuania, andorra, cyprus belarus, ukraine, monaco, malta, san marino middle east: bahrain, israel, qatar, turkey, united arab emirates, kuwait, oman, jordan, iran, lebanon, afghanistan, pakistan, iraq, yemen, syria, asia: japan, china, philippines, brunei, malaysia, singapore, sri lanka, thailand, cambodia, vietnam, south korea, north korea, indonesia, taiwan, india, myanmar, laos, russia, georgia, armenia, azerbaijan, kazakhstan, mongolia, north korea, tajikistan, uzbekistan, kyrgyzstan, maldives, timor-leste, bhutan, turkmenistan oceania: australia, new zealand, fiji, vanuatu, papua new guinea, solomon islands, kiribati, tuvalu, marshall islands, samoa, nauru, tonga, micronesia africa: egypt, tunisia, morocco, tanzania, south africa, botswana, lesotho, swaziland, mozambique, zimbabwe, zambia, malawi, kenya, rwanda, ethiopia, uganda, djibouti, somalia, mauritius, seychelles, madagascar, comoros, namibia, angola, são tomé and príncipe, gabon, cameroon, equatorial guinea, chad, togo, mali, mauritania, eritrea, sudan, south sudan, nigeria, niger, benin, ivory coast, liberia, sierra leone, guinea, guinea-bissau, senegal, the gambia, democratic republic of congo, burundi, republic of congo, central african republic, libya, cape verde *other notes* – long/overnight layovers in quito (ecuador) and panama city (panama)… but didn’t leave the airport so i don’t count it – visited hong kong, macau & taiwan but they are technically part of china – visited somaliland but it’s technically part of somalia – visited antarctica but it’s not an independent country – visited greenland, but it’s technically denmark u.s. states visited (47) u.s. states visited: alabama, alaska, arizona, arkansas, california, colorado, connecticut, delaware, florida, georgia, idaho, illinois, indiana, iowa, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, mississippi, missouri, montana, nebraska, nevada, new hampshire, new jersey, new mexico, new york, north carolina, ohio, oklahoma, oregon, pennsylvania, rhode island, south carolina, tennessee, texas, utah, vermont, virginia, washington, west virginia, wisconsin, wyoming states left: hawaii, north dakota, south dakota all previous trips in the next part, i will lay out a timeline of all the trips i’ve taken in reverse chronological order. my 2 qualifications for what i consider a “trip” are: – it must have been at least 7 days long – i must have visited at least 5 new destinations sept – oct 2018 –> central & west africa i returned back to africa to visit 13 more countries solo — but these we are a lot more difficult and stressful than my previous trip. madagascar, comoros, namibia, angola, são tomé, gabon, cameroon, equatorial guinea, chad, togo, mali, mauritania and lebanon. i had to organize visas to most of them, and flights alone were $7,000+. i had near-death experiences in chad, and didn’t have the greatest of times in the other places. it was a very memorable trip overall, and i can’t wait to finish the african continent next year (2019). jan-march 2018 –> southern & eastern africa my first trip to sub-saharan africa was a massive 2 month solo adventure to the following countries: south africa, lesotho, swaziland, mozambique, botswana, zimbabwe, zambia, malawi, uganda, rwanda, ethiopia, djibouti, somalia and dubai. the highlights of this trip were a safari in botswana, seeing mountain gorillas in uganda, seeing the mursi tribe in ethiopia and exploring the unknown in somaliland. africa is a remarkable continent and i can’t wait to return! fall 2017 –> south america/antarctica my girlfriend and i went on the trip of a lifetime. we flew into uruguay, then visited buenos aires and paraguay before jumping on a 17 day cruise/expedition with hurtigruten to antarctica. en route, we stopped in the patagonia region of argentina and then continued onwards to the falkland islands, mainland antarctica (for 3 days), and up the chilean fjords before ending in punta arenas. then we spent a few days in santiago and valparaíso (chile!) antarctica really is a dream and i can’t wait to return in the new future. summer 2017 –> eurotrip/north africa i went on a long and fun eurotrip in the summer of 2017. i started on a father/son golf trip to ireland & scotland, then quickly hopped down to morocco before heading to barcelona, andorra, cyprus, france, germany, czech. republic, austria, slovakia, hungary, and istanbul. it was an amazing trip and now i can officially say that i have been to all 45 countries on the european continent! march 2017 –> east europe/ central asia i went to moscow (russia), baku (azerbaijan) and astana (kazakhstan) — all cities and countries were new for me. despite going in the winter (when it was sometimes -15c or 12f) i really enjoyed learning about these cultures! seeing the red square and st. basil’s cathedral in moscow was something i got to check off my bucket list for a long time. kazakhstan was my first time in central asia. despite a short visit, i made some new friends and tried strange traditional foods (like horse meat and camel’s milk). i am looking forward to going back to central asia in a few months! dec 2016 –> middle east (arabian gulf) i visited kuwait, bahrain, qatar and oman all by myself and it turned out to be one of the most inspiring trips of my life. the people are so friendly and kind, and i received some of the best hospitality of any place on earth. many people thought i was crazy for visiting the middle east alone with no plans, but i’ve discovered that the middle east is much safer than the media makes it out to be, and i urge you to visit so you can experience it for yourself. i loved it so much that i’m already planning my next trip to saudi arabia and iran. highlights of this trip were camping overnight in the omani desert, playing golf in kuwait, hanging out at the souk waqif in qatar, and exploring the shiekh’s house of bahrain. oct – nov 2016 –> eurotrip & world record i went on a crazy 2 week eurotrip in late october/early november 2016. i spent the first week in hamburg, leipzig and berlin on a press trip with the germany national tourism office. and then after, i attempted to set my first guinness world record by visiting the “most unesco world heritage sites in 24 hours.” my buddy rodrigo and i visited 12 unesco sites across germany and holland, and it was the craziest 24 hours of my life! you can read more about our record here. after the world record, i jumped around 5 countries in 4 days — italy, san marino, monaco, france and tunisia. what a fun trip that was! july – oct 2016 –> south america & caribbean i took my very first trip to south america on a 3-month adventure spanning 6 countries. some of the highlights were machu picchu in peru, the salt flats in bolivia and the summer olympic games in rio! immediately after my south america trip, i spent a month hopping around the caribbean islands. i visited every island country in the south/east caribbean, and it was a lot of fun! my favorite caribbean island was st. lucia beacuse of it’s natural beauty (volcanoes, jungle, nightlife, beaches) and amazing scuba diving. you have to visit! march – june 2016 –> southeast asia & oceania i (obviously) can’t get enough of southeast asia, so i went back to spend more time in the philippines and indonesia. after that, i went to new zealand, fiji, vanuatu, singapore, vietnam and melbourne, australia! highlights of this trip were scuba diving through shipwrecks in fiji, skydiving in melbourne and bungee jumping in new zealand. oct – dec 2015 –> southeast asia after my summer eurotrip, i went back to my favorite region on earth — southeast asia. i spent more time in thailand, vietnam, philippines and i visited laos for the first time. during this trip, i filmed episodes for my travel show, travel hungry, with 5 of my film-maker friends from la. july – oct 2015 –> eurotrip during the summer/autumn of 2015, i went on a 3 month backpacking trip around europe. my goal was to visit most of the countries that i still hadn’t visited yet in europe. as i couch surfed my way around the continent, i attended several music festivals, met hundreds of new people and had a crazy amount of fun. march – may 2015 –> india my first real solo adventure was india. after my teaching english job finished in korea, i packed my 40 liter backpack, and booked a flight to india. i didn’t have any idea where i was going, where i was sleeping, or who i’d be meeting. i just went. traveling in india was a challenge. it throws you in situations that you never thought you’d be in your life. it tests you to make choices. it is a rollercoaster of both ups and downs, highs and lows. but looking back, i can confidently say that i grew more from my trip in india than any previous trip i’d taken in my life. as they say, “if you can travel india, you can travel anywhere in the world.” for a complete look at my trip to india, please see this blog post. jan 2015 –> myanmar (burma) myanmar was always on my radar after talking to so many people who had recently been. the country had recently opened up it’s doors to tourism, so the country wasn’t mass publicized or mainstream (yet). i went to burma for 2 weeks on my first solo trip, and it was one of the best trips of my life. the culture is virtually untouched, authentic and real (there were no mcdonald’s or coca cola). the people were so friendly and welcoming. and the food was so good — a mixture of indian and thai. i visited 3 cities — yangon, bagan and inle lake. if you want to read more about my experiences in myanmar, then please check out this blog post. august 2014 –> taipei, bali & sydney i had a 3 week summer vacation in august, so i decided to go to taipei, bali and sydney. i spent the first 5 days in taipei, visiting two college friends who are teaching english there. then, i flew down to bali to meet my other 2 friends. we did lots of nature stuff, and partied a lot during the 6 days that i was there. lastly, i spent the last week or so in sydney. i visited my 2 high school friends who are living down there. it was absolutely incredible (but so expensive). feb – march 2014 –> southeast asia: part 2 on the second-leg to southeast asia, , i went back with 2 friends from college. we started in seoul and went to: – koh panghan, thailand – where i went to the full moon party – koh samui, thailand – bangkok, thailand – siem reap, cambodia – phnom penh, cambodia – ho chi minh city, vietnam – beijing, china – jan 2014 –> southeast asia: part 1 before i embarked on this trip, i had been teaching english in korea for about 5 months. my school gave me a really generous summer vacation (5 weeks off), so i traveled around asia with a friend. we went to: – cebu, philippines – 3 other islands in the philippines – bandar seri begawan, brunei – singapore, singapore – kuala lumpur, malaysia – sri lanka– we toured around the entire country in 8 days that was my first taste of southeast asia and i instantly fell in love with the culture and people. i did so many awesome things during this trip that i was just itching to get back to southeast asia. and that’s exactly what i did… 2 weeks later. june 2013 –> eurotrip to scandinavia my friend lukas, who was my old roommate from studying abroad, and i took a trip throughout scandinavia after college. we started in nyc and then: – flew to copenhagen, denmark- – took a train to malmo, sweden – flew to bergen, norway– – flew to stockholm, sweden – flew to helsinki, finland – took a boat to tallinn, estonia – flew to prague (i had to visit my favorite city again!) – flew to warsaw, poland – flew back home to the usa although not so budget-friendly, scandinavia is one of the most beautiful regions on earth and a must-visit. i have a lots of good memories from this trip, as we partied every night, ate amazing food, met some great people and didn’t sleep much. april 2013 –> spring break roadtrip in u.s. south for spring break during my final year in college, my roommate and i decided to take an 8-day road trip through the southern states of the usa. we started the trip in madison, wisconsin and then visited: – chicago, illinois – memphis, tennessee – some random city, arkansas – starkville, mississippi – gulf shores & montgomery, alabama – atlanta, georgia – greenville, south carolina – charlotte, north carolina – random city, virginia – charleston, west virginia – dayton, ohio – indianapolis, indiana we visited college friends in almost every main city along the way. we literally partied every single night in a different southern city and ate the best food ever. it was one hell of a trip! january 2013 –> costa rica & nicaragua my best friend shon (the same one from the road trip to canada) and i went on a 2 week trip throughout costa rica and nicaragua. we rented a car and drove everywhere ourselves. if you are going to costa rica, then i highly recommend renting a car as it’s very affordable and totally worth it. this trip was filled with all sorts of outdoorsy activities like kayaking, zip lining, hiking volcanoes and more. may 2012 –> 4 week eurotrip when my semester in prague finished, i went on a 4-week backpacking trip throughout europe and the middle east with 2 friends. we began in prague and then: – flew to dubai, uae – flew to istanbul. turkey – flew to athens, greece – took ferries to santorini, naxos and mykonos- – flew to lisbon, portugal – took a train to lagos, portugal – flew to barcelona, spain – took a train to nice and southern france – took a train to interlaken, switzerland – took a train to milan, italy – took a train to venice, italy- find out why i hated venice – flew back to prague now the travel bug was really with me! april 2012 –> spring break in europe when i was studying abroad in prague, a few friends and i went on an epic 10 day adventure around eastern europe. to date, this is still the most insane, fast-paced, crazy party centric, sleep depriving, bizarre trip that i’ve ever taken. we started in prague and then: – took a train to munich – flew to belgrade – flew to tivat, montenegro – took a taxi to dubrovnik, croatia – took a bus to mostar, bosnia – got stranded on the border of bosnia & croatia, so we hitchhiked to sarajevo. – took a bus from sarajevo to split, croatia – flew back to prague i can’t even tell you how much fun i had during these 10 days. it was absolutely insane, and i will never forget this one. may 2009 –> roadtrip from az to canada this was the trip that really kicked everything off for me. the day after i graduated from high school, my best friend shon and i got in a car and drove across the usa. we started from our home in phoenix, arizona and covered 20+ cities in 9 u.s. states & 2 canadian provinces in 14 days. here’s where we went: – phoenix, arizona – las vegas, nevada – salt lake city, utah – idaho falls, idaho – yellowstone national park, wyoming – helena, montana – calgary, albetra, canada – banff national forest, canada – vancouver, british columbia, canada, – seattle, washington – portland & sisters, oregon – san francisco, california – los angeles, california recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.