editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. editors' blog / analysis & opinion latest 36 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 37 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 40 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime where things stand: will we have a grandstander? frankfort, ky - january 31: rep thomas massie (r-ky) draws a ruger lcp handgun from his pocket during a rally in support of the second amendment on january 31, 2020 in frankfort, kentucky. advocates from across the s... frankfort, ky - january 31: rep thomas massie (r-ky) draws a ruger lcp handgun from his pocket during a rally in support of the second amendment on january 31, 2020 in frankfort, kentucky. advocates from across the state gathered at the kentucky capitol in support of the second amendment. the rally will include speeches from rep. thomas massie (r-ky) and former washington, d.c. special police officer, dick heller. (photo by bryan woolston/getty images) more less by nicole lafond | march 27, 2020 12:42 p.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. it appears that we will. rep. thomas massie (r-ky) pledged friday that he will stand in the way of passage of a $2 trillion covid-19 relief bill in the house today, a stimulus package that president trump himself has vowed to sign once it makes it’s way through congress. massie said friday that he will stop the senate-approved bill from passing via voice vote in the house, which will force lawmakers to come back to washington, d.c. for a recorded vote. massie’s grandstanding appears to be fueled by libertarian convictions. he’s concerned about adding to the national debt and believes holding a vote without a plenum present is a violation of the constitution. but these are desperate times. many members have been avoiding the capitol for days to curb the spread of the coronavirus after two lawmakers were diagnosed with the disease. several others have self-quarantined over fear of exposure to carriers. the lawmaker’s showboating won’t make house leadership happy. both house speaker nancy pelosi (d-ca) and minority leader kevin mccarthy (r-ca) hoped to approve the measure by voice vote today. the pair have also been considering changing debate and voting rules as a precautionary measure. we’ll keep an eye on how this all plays out today. here’s more on that and other stories we’re following: what the investigations team is watching kate riga is reporting on the impact covid-19 has had on the funeral home business and the danger it presents to those who run them. tierney sneed is looking into a new insurance obstacle that federal employees face when it comes to using telemedicine. what the breaking news team is watching trump, who apparently thinks he knows more about combating the coronavirus than doctors do, claimed last night that new york hospitals don’t actually need 30,000 ventilators. “you go into major hospitals sometimes and they’ll have two ventilators,” he told sean hannity. “and now all of a sudden they’re saying ‘can we order 30,000 ventilators?’” trump has continued this tear via twitter this morning. we’ll keep an eye on his latest remarks. on the other side of the pond, british prime minister boris johnson announced today that he had tested positive for covid-19, which makes him the first major world leader to contract the coronavirus. this comes after johnson downplayed the spread of the virus last month, joking to reporters that he was still “shaking hands.” today’s rundown trump has nothing on his public schedule today, and has been tweeting all morning. 5:00 p.m. et: the white house will hold is coronavirus task force news briefing. yesterday’s most read story this is very important news from italy. please read. — josh marshall what we are reading dr. fauci doughnuts are selling like hotcakes at donuts delite — marcia greenwood a twitter thread on how triscuit got it’s name — sage boggs key coronavirus crisis links josh marshall’s twitter list of trusted experts (epidemiologists, researchers, clinicians, journalists, government agencies) providing reliable real-time information on the covid-19 crisis. johns hopkins global covid-19 survey (most up to date numbers globally and for countries around the world). covid-19 tracking project (updated data on testing and infections in the u.s.). worldometers.info (extensive source of information and data visualizations on covid-19 crisis — discussion of data here). nicole lafond (@nicole_lafond) is tpm’s special projects editor, based in new york. previously, she was a senior newswriter for tpm. she has a master’s degree in journalism from columbia university and formerly covered education for the news-gazette in illinois. have a tip? send it here! includes: covid-19thomas massie more in edblog 5 hours ago national leaders need to take more personal precautions 18 hours ago obscene 22 hours ago a dark day advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy