home politics cltv mediabites search this site: search login | register username: * password: * forgot password? remember my login on this computer activism 3/27/20 5:30am read time: 4 minutes comments white nationalist planned to bomb missouri hospital to revolt against covid lockdowns it was only a matter of time before the u.s. experienced its first coronavirus-related act of domestic terrorism. by david neiwert image from: tim wilson self-portrait from facebook given the intensity of the conspiracy theories on the radical right that have arisen around the coronavirus pandemic—particularly the number of rightists claiming that government lockdown orders are an initial step in the imposition of a tyrannical order—it was only a matter of time before the u.s. experienced its first coronavirus-related act of domestic terrorism. on tuesday, a missouri man named timothy wilson made preparations to set off a car bomb at a local hospital in suburban belton, which was intended as a revolt against the stay-at-home order issued by belton’s mayor, but his plan was cut short by an fbi raid. when he apparently resisted with a weapon, he ended up being shot and killed. wilson had been the subject of an ongoing domestic terrorism investigation since september, according to an fbi statement. “wilson was actively planning to commit an act of domestic terrorism—a bombing—and over the course of several months had considered several targets,” it read. a number of far-right extremists have claimed that the pandemic is secretly a cover for the imposition of a totalitarian “globalist” government. wilson, who was a participant in neo-nazi chat rooms, decided to enact a plan he had already concocted for creating a car bomb and use it on a hospital in belton, the fbi said. “wilson considered various targets and ultimately settled on an area hospital in an attempt to harm many people, targeting a facility that is providing critical medical care in today’s environment,” the statement read. “wilson had taken the necessary steps to acquire materials needed to build an explosive device.” there was no actual bomb. wilson had arrived at a residence in belton with his own vehicle, believing the person there had constructed a device for him. it's unclear whether wilson was shot by fbi agents as they moved in to arrest him, or whether he shot himself. the fbi’s interest in wilson apparently originated with his heavy involvement in some of the same neo-nazi factions that have produced a string of arrests in recent months. nick martin at the informant reports that wilson “was an admirer of the 1980s terrorist group the order and had ties to two active neo-nazi organizations.” one of martin’s sources identified wilson as the telegram user “werwolfe 84,” which enabled martin and elon university computer science professor megan squire to determine wilson’s involvement in two public telegram channels for neo-nazi groups: one for the national socialist movement (nsm) and one for the violence-oriented vorherrschaft division (vsd). according to martin, wilson was an administrator of the nsm’s public telegram chat, active there as recently as tuesday afternoon, just prior to the fbi raid. he posted his view that the coronavirus pandemic was a government ploy, an “excuse to destroy our people.” “mark my words it’s [sic] coming i hope people are ready,” he wrote. he had also used anti-semitic language the day prior in a comment on the coronavirus outbreak. “if you don’t think this whole thing was engineered by jews as a power grab here is more proof of their plans,” wilson wrote. “jews have been playing the long game we are the only ones standing in their way.” martin observed that wilson was apparently an admirer of the northwest-based neo-nazi gang the order, which in 1983-84 had engaged in a running series of bank and armored car robberies and several murders, including a denver radio talk show host. wilson made frequent references to robert mathews, the leader of the order, who perished in a shootout with fbi agents in december 1984, calling him “uncle bob.” a january post on the vsd channel by wilson featured images of members of the order with the caption: “remember our heroes.” on sunday, martin reported, wilson posted a photo of mathews. “don’t be the cuck that gives up without a fight,” wilson wrote. “make uncle bob proud.” even before the pandemic erupted, the fbi had identified white nationalist extremism as the most lethal terrorist threat facing americans, with good cause. of particular concern is the recent trend among the radicalized fascists to advocate for a civil war—or, in their lingo, the coming “boogaloo”—by committing acts of terrorism. the same faction has also discussed weaponizing the coronavirus itself. some of them, apparently, are not content to wait for the infection to arrive before acting. published with permission of daily kos tags: coronavirus, covid-19, domestic terrorism, missouri, tim wilson, white nationalism facebook twitter pinterest flipboard email can you help us out? for 16 years we have been exposing washington lies and untangling media deceit. we work 7 days a week, 16 hours a day for our labor of love, but with rising hosting and associated costs, we need your help! could you donate $20 for 2020? please consider a one time or recurring donation of whatever amount you can spare. it will be greatly appreciated and help us continue our mission of exposing the real fake news! donate via: kindest donate via paypal or mail checks to: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 more c&l coverage neo-nazi militiaman j.t. ready tries to claim he's suporting occupy phoenix neo-nazis in arizona nov 02, 2011 by david neiwert neo-nazi militiaman j.t. ready tries to claim he's suporting occupy phoenix neo-nazis in arizona nov 02, 2011 by david neiwert white nationalists seek to weaponize coronavirus pandemic for the “accelerationists” of the white nationalist movement—the nihilistic young bigots and misogynists who “just want to watch the world burn”—the coronavirus pandemic is “truly a gift.” mar 24, 2020 by david neiwert comments we welcome relevant, respectful comments. any comments that are sexist or in any other way deemed hateful by our staff will be deleted and constitute grounds for a ban from posting on the site. please refer to our terms of service (revised 3/17/2016) for information on our posting policy. latest fox and friends pretends trump is sympathetic to ny's need for ventilators. ainsley earhardt completely re-words dear leader's response to gov. cuomo's plea for 30,000 ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by aliza worthington trump 'doesn't believe' we don't need so many ventilators good to know, stable genius! mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump admits his 'issues' with michigan's woman governor are affecting covid aid what the hell, donald. grow up and do your job. mar 27, 2020 by john amato trump's 'easter' schedule is all about the brunch money of course trump's hotels have a profit center around the after-church easter buffets. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum jimmy kimmel interviews joe biden about the coronavirus crisis "speed matters," biden said about trump's response. mar 27, 2020 by susie madrak view all » latest from cltv governor cuomo's henry v speech: 'we will tell our grandchildren and shed a tear' andrew cuomo speaks to new york national guard troops in a speech that will long be remembered. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum fox & friends revisionist history of trump's denial that new york needs ventilators fox & friends lies about what trump said just the night before with sean hannity about new york's need for ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by heather trump to hannity: 'i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators' "you know, you go to major hospitals, sometimes they have 2 ventilators." says stable genius. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump whines to hannity about governor whitmer of course the strong woman governor is a problem for donald. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum tucker carlson attacks the media for reporting on the dangers of trump promoting untested covid-19 treatments fox's tucker carlson goes after the media for daring to report on trump's dangerous rhetoric promoting experimental coronavirus treatments. mar 27, 2020 by heather visit cltv » stay connected facebook twitter flipboard feeds daily newsletter our daily top picks right to your inbox email name name="b_1b79560977ef0d50a412db2c8_d4904be7bc" tabindex="-1" value=""> staff editor & publisher john amato managing editor karoli kuns associate editors aliza worthington frances langum heather nicole belle susie madrak contributors chris capper li... dale merrill david ed scarce jenn budd newshound ellen red painter webmaster jamie support c&l or by snail mail: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 ©2020 crooks and liars footer about us feeds contact terms of service privacy dmca search this site: search home cltv politics media bites entertainment activism sports tech green business yesteryear misc