home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy who we are hey you, welcome! do you like writing? maybe you do, but i bet there are also times when you feel frustrated because you want to write better. am i right? i’m mary jaksch, the chief editor of write to done. the key thing i’ve discovered is that everyone can learn to write well. it’s not a question of genetics, it’s all about practice. we’ve all heard that ‘practice makes better.’ but that’s not necessarily true. let me give you an example. if you want to become a top tennis player and you practice sending the ball into the net hour after hour and day after day – this kind of practice is not going to get you a win in the next tournament. because. well, because you’ll be sending the balls into the net each time you serve, instead of landing them in the court of your opponent. the point? the point is that your writing practice needs to be directed in a positive way. that’s why we’ve created wtd so that you can learn new skills, practice them, and become a better writer. write to done is about learning to write better. whether you write non-fiction, novels, blog posts, or sales pages – you will find inspiration and tips here at write to done. here’s the experience i bring to wtd: i’m a published author. my book learn to love has been translated into 7 languages. my ebook start over: create the life you want has been downloaded over 77,000 times. you can download the first (30 page) chapter for free here. in my master’s dissertation on koan study in zen, the road to nowhere, i show that even academic writing can come to life with my ‘juicy writing’ techniques. under my watch, writetodone.com has become one of the most powerful blogs for writers on the net. and my other blog, goodlife zen, has become a popular destination for people interested in personal growth and spirituality. sharing my strategies for online success, i’ve trained over 4,300 bloggers over at a-list blogging. as to my offline activities, i’m often called a serial achiever. i started my professional life as a classical flutist – becoming a renowned soloist – and then retrained as a psychotherapist to be of service to others. after over 25 years of zen training, i was made an authorized zen master and now teach students all around the world. but if you think i just sit behind a desk, you’d be dead wrong. i’ve had a long involvement in karate and am a 5th degree karate blackbelt in active training. finally, i love traveling, mountain biking and dancing argentine tango in skimpy dresses. questions? please contact me here. oh, and do please share wtd posts on social media! editor: laura tong laura tong’s writing regularly features on such top blogs as huffington post, tiny buddha and goodlife zen. her articles have been read and shared by thousands (and even translated into serbian and burmese). hundreds of students have taken her course on building confidence. she’s a published author (traditional and indie) and has written books as diverse as luxury travel, surreal fiction, autobiographical and personal development. you can get her latest book here: the life-changing power of no! laura is also assistant editor at goodlifezen and runs her own blog at positivelyhappy.me. you can listen to her popular interview series re-write the rules here. laura’s other passions include painting, renovating her house in france and building everything from ozark float boats to hovercraft. she also loves travelling, adventuring and discovering just how awesome people are the world over. follow laura on twitter write to done was originally the brainchild of leo babauta of zen habits who founded it in january 2008. tweet pin share copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >