skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us why our first blog failed… and how to prevent it from happening to you! alex nerney updated: 1/22/20 • comments: 16 home » create and go blog » blogging basics » why our first blog failed… and how to prevent it from happening to you! disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin122 shares122 you’ve likely heard a lot of success stories from us, but it hasn’t all been sunshine and rainbows, folks. we made a lot of mistakes along the way. and we still do, if we’re just being honest, although not as many as in the beginning. the biggest blogging mistakes were definitely made in the first few months of trying to create our first health and fitness blog. i’m going to share with you how this first blog of ours failed in a truly spectacular fashion. and i’ll preface it with the fact that we did find success just a few months later with the very next health and wellness blog that we started. we went on to make $103,456.98 with that second blog in its first year. and we make over $100,000/month blogging, as evidenced in our income reports. but sweet baby j, it didn’t start that way… first, let me define what i mean by the term “failed.” we’ve been sending out surveys and quizzes recently and when asked the question of “what is your reason for wanting to blog?…” 76% of people said “to make money and become financially free” as their #1 or #2 reason. ditto, my friends. we started because we wanted to… quit our jobs work when we wanted to be in control of our income become 100% free to design our lives exactly how we wanted we are defining blog failure, in this case, as not making money or accomplishing the goals that we had for our blog. if those are not your reasons for starting a blog, then this post may not resonate as much with you. i understand that a blog can be a personal diary for some without any intention of monetary gain. that’s why i wanted to clear up how we defined “failure.” here is an overview of what we’re going to cover in this article: table of contents close open our first health and fitness blog we put ourselves first we took all the wrong moves in all the wrong places we tried to monetize before driving traffic we didn’t prioritize building an email list we didn’t have any good guidance how to know if it’s time to call it quits on your blog and start over our first health and fitness blog the truth is, looking back, our first blog idea wasn’t actually a terrible idea! i’ve done worse for less. the reason our idea flopped like a fat fish on a wet marble floor was mostly due to our terrible execution. if you didn’t know, you can check out old versions of websites using a website called wayback machine. it can be fun to look back and see how far you’ve come. as youngish twenty-somethings trying to stay healthy while drinking and partying with friends, we figured we could blog about that topic. why the hell not, right? combining the two things we loved… it was a crude blog with lots of potty humor (something lauren and i love). here are some photos from it: basically, we would get a little drunk, take photos of recipes, write explicit text on them, and laugh our asses off like a couple of insane hyenas. it was fun and stupid and everything in between. everything was great except for a few teensy tiny problems: nobody was reading our blog, we had made exactly $0 from it, and nobody cared about it. other than that, we were doing great! *facepalm* for all of you preferred video learners out there, here is a video of this topic (plus some extra tips!) from our youtube channel below. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display:inline-block;width:0px;overflow:hidden;line-height:0;" class="mce_selres_start">&#65279;</span> let’s look at the five reasons why this first blog idea failed and break this down from our perspective as now-successful bloggers. we put ourselves first all of the content we created was centered around ourselves and what we wanted to create. it was all about us. actual photos of us drinking that we had on our “about us” page… i actually see this quite often in the blogging sphere. content creators are often more concerned with how other people view them and work on stuff they like rather than focusing on helping their readers with their problems and needs. and i get it. because when you are first starting out, you don’t have an audience yet and don’t really know what that future audience is interested in. but the assumption is a dangerous path to be on for too long. we were as guilty of this as anyone. we wanted to get hammered drinking mimosas and sloppily taking photos of our “healthy” recipe creations. oh, and make money from it. ha! but it was selfish in nature. the difference with our second health and wellness blog is that the content was solely focused on the needs and wants of our audience. it actually had very little to do with the content lauren and i wanted to create and had everything to do with the type of content we knew our audience liked and responded to. you think lauren and i wanted to write weight loss posts for middle-aged women for the rest of our lives?? hell no. but that’s what they need, so we sucked up our pride and did it for a full year + of our lives. now, before i lose you… i know what you’re thinking. “i have to write about stuff i’m not interested in!? that sounds miserable!” no, you don’t have to. you should always enjoy what you are doing, but it doesn’t mean that you will love every second of it. sometimes, there is more money to be made in areas that you don’t love as much and you have to decide what direction you want to go in. we could have made some money from our first direction at some point, but we wouldn’t have made enough to quit our jobs, design our lives, and accomplish the other goals that were important to us. the health and wellness website turned out to be something that we weren’t as passionate about but it has provided us with: the financial freedom to quit our jobs, travel, live life the way that we want to, and the ability to work on the projects that we are truly passionate about (create and go!). and those things make us happy! the key is to focus on what your audience wants, needs, and responds to (not what you want to create) especially if financial freedom is something that you want. pro tip: if you aren’t sure what that is in the beginning, create a lot of different types of content and see what your audience is most attracted to. that’s how we began to figure it out when we started driving more traffic with pinterest. we took all the wrong moves in all the wrong places i once spent 7+ days trying to come up with our mission statement. 7 &^$(%*^ days! it’s like the entrepreneur who files for an llc before a single person has purchased their product (something i am also guilty of). it’s dumb. don’t do that. a mission statement should take you 30 minutes to make and then you should move on. if it doesn’t come to you in that time frame, let it go and focus on something else until it becomes clearer. we spent entirely too much time on: how our blog looked our mission statement our about us page other less important, asinine things and entirely too little time: learning wordpress creating original content creating content people actually want now we understand what matters and what doesn’t matter when it comes to blogging. honestly, this is why people buy our courses in droves at create and go. it’s not that lauren and i are super geniuses, although we do know our shit when it comes to blogging. but it’s more because our courses can save you a ton of time that you would otherwise waste on learning and trying things that don’t matter (or work). we tried to monetize before driving traffic think of it as having your very own lemonade stand, perfectly positioned, in the sahara desert. you can have the dopest, freshest, most lemony-lemonade of all time, but you’re in the damn desert… you ain’t making any sales, partner. we spent a full month creating two digital products that we thought were absolutely awesome — that no one purchased. we were sitting there in the desert like “where’s that money, though??” in order to make money with your blog, you have to have two things: high-quality traffic proper monetization methods in place by proper monetization, we mean not just slapping up a link to some rando affiliate product and crossing your fingers that someone will buy. it’s the combination of these that will lead you to success as a blogger. this is also around the time we started learning more about pinterest. the more we got into it, the more we realized pinterest is the peanut butter to the jelly that is blogging. read this article on pinterest traffic for bloggers next if you’re interested in learning more about how we did it and how you can. we didn’t prioritize building an email list despite everyone on the internet telling us we had to collect emails, we thought: we don’t like emails; therefore nobody likes emails. let’s not do it. solid thought process, right? *another facepalm* many of you new bloggers are probably somewhere in that camp as well. while much has changed in the world of blogging over the years, this has not. there is no single way to better turn a prospect into a fan into a customer than through email marketing. collecting emails from day 1 when you start getting visitors to your blog is one of the most important things you can do. it may not be fun and you may not even like email, but it’s capital-t true. and by far the best email marketing tool you can use to create and send emails to your audience is convertkit. it’s what we’ve been using for over two years now, and it also now comes with tons of landing pages and opt-in forms that you can use to get more subscribers to your blog. we didn’t have any good guidance i think a lot of this goes back to the fact that we didn’t actually identify as “bloggers” for the longest time. we just thought we were starting a health and fitness website and trying to make money online. and when you google “make money online,” a whole lot of varied, fragmented, and downright awful information comes up. most of the “guidance” we found was from marketers teaching about marketing and gurus teaching about how to be a guru. we participated in course launches about launches. watched webinars on webinars. and bought a whole lot of other courses and software that we didn’t need at the time. we just didn’t realize it at the time, but advice from these people needs to be taken with a big, fat grain of salt. here’s why: monetizing and growing a website that’s in a niche like knitting or health, is very different from one that teaches people how to make money online. the truth is that it’s much easier to sell when you’re teaching people how to make an income. we know because we now do it. but only after earning six figures with our health and wellness blog. while this absolutely does not mean you should start out teaching people how to make money online — it’s dishonest at best and a flat out lying at worst if you haven’t actually made money online yet… it does mean you should be paying close attention to who you are taking advice from. we would have made money a lot faster had we started with the knowledge we give in our courses or in these articles and were always more passionate about the business side of blogging because we both have a college degree in business. but other than selling my first ebook out of college, i didn’t have the level of personal experience to blog about making a serious income online. so, lauren and i decided to blog about health and wellness, a topic that we both were very passionate about and knowledgeable in. i was a certified personal trainer and nutrition specialist and she was a former vegan for two years. it was a great fit for us. only after taking our health and wellness blog to over $10,000/month did we start create and go. bottom line: be wary. be skeptical. even of me. i’m no saint, y’all. i sell courses too. while i think they are the best in the biz, it’s easy to look at someone who has the success that we do and think “these two baboons must have all the answers.” we don’t. while we do our best, we have flaws as well. just saying. how to know if it’s time to call it quits on your blog and start over i’m adding this section in as an update to this article because it’s a question we receive fairly often from some of our bloggers. i wish i could give you a definitive answer, but this is really a personal decision. whether you want to keep pushing forward or chalk it up to a failure and start over. lauren and i ultimately decided to scrap our first blog because we felt like we were so far off the mark. we were doing so many things wrong that there really wasn’t any “fixing” it. we had failed products, no email list, a bunch of content no one was interested in, not much traffic, and really nothing to lose at that point. sure, we could have deleted or changed all of the content to try to “revive” it from the dead. but we felt like a fresh blog, a fresh mindset, and a fresh start was the only way up for us. we looked around at other successful blogs to get ideas for the kind of style we thought might work for us. we were pretty open at this point after the recent failure. it was honestly more of a gut feeling than anything else. starting over felt like the right thing to do. i’m not sure if that helps you out a whole lot. but you should really think about it before you make that decision. we didn’t have a whole lot left to lose at that point, so we went for it. i know it’s dark down there in the trenches… what we call the “poop phase” of blogging, but there is a light at the end of the tunnel. i promise. summary in summary, here are the main reasons why our blog failed: we were selfish. if you want to succeed, your content has to be centered around solving other people’s problems, not always your own. we made all the wrong moves in all the wrong places. forget about your mission statement or that dope logo and focus more on providing value to your readers. we tried to monetize without traffic. you need both great traffic and a great product to make money. we didn’t begin building an email list right away. turn your readers into subscribers as soon as you start driving traffic! we didn’t have any good guidance. find guidance from people whom you feel that you can truly trust and who will shoot you straight. read next: best blogging tips for beginners if you enjoyed this article on how our first blog failed or have any questions, please feel free to leave a comment below! we’d love to hear from you! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin122 shares122 about alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. read this next how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) open this window to get started with bluehost now.start with bluehost nowstart now are you looking for a simple, step-by-step guide to how to start a blog and actually make money from it!? our free guide on this page will show you how to create a blog that is beautiful and functional, all in an easy step-by-step […] keep reading > similar articles blogging basics how to come up with a great blog name in 30 minutes! how much does it really cost to start a blog? (2020 update) 10 popular and profitable blog niches that still work in 2020 how much do bloggers make? like, really? [2020 edition] see all blog posts 16 leave a reply 8 comment threads 8 thread replies 1 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 11 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest kim is your course only of us people? i have the feeling that the german market is different.. i was thinking if i really should make a blog in german or in english… thanks in advance. greetings from germany kim you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 18 hours ago admin alex and lauren hey kim! we have many international students around the world who use the strategies taught in our course. it is not location dependant. the language of your blog should match your target audience. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 hours ago guest greg mathews hey guys, i just started my pet blog. i’m just starting so only have half a dozen or so posts. maybe you can take a look and tell me if i’m on the right track. specifically, the general layout look and design, and the writing. i’m not worried about monetization etc, at least not at the moment, just the content quality. thanks. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren hey greg. the design looks cute and playful. you are off to a good start 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest sam hey alex and lauren you guys are not posting frequently on avocadu.com…..whats d reason man. i love avocadu… inspired from lauren and you… what’s the income of avocadu nowdays. thank you for motivation.reply soon. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago admin alex and lauren hey, sam. we continue to clear 6-figures a year with avocadu 🙂 the amount of content ebbs and flows depending on other projects we may be working on. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago guest adrienne b redelings great article. you guys really are an inspiration for the noobs like me. i started just as a hobby and money wasn’t even a thought. once my eyes were opened to the serious potential to earn, it definitely sparked my attention! i love the blogging world 😍 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago admin alex and lauren that’s awesome, adrienne! keep us updated on your progress 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago guest naveen gupta hi alex and lauren, i’ve been reading both your blogs and you guys are truly an inspiration! i want to start a health and wellness blog and having you guys to look up to is really encouraging! thanks so much for writing not only about your ups but also your downs 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago admin alex and lauren hey lauren. we don’t recommend specific banks for credit card companies. i’d suggest calling around to see which one will best serve your needs. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago guest lauren ok, thanks so much for getting back to me! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks, naveen! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago guest alexia walke i joined the 7 day course and i’m pretty excited about my blog, and i grow even more motivated when i read articles from you guys. my only problem is i’m having such a hard time with what my content should be about and i find myself so lost in the world of blogging which seems to involve so much! seo, the email list and just appealing to people. i’m trying not to feel overwhelmed. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey alexia! i can totally understand how it can be overwhelming. as a blogger, you’re a one-man team (unless you have a business partner), and this means that you’re in charge of everything: content creation, marketing, sales, accounting, customer service, etc. the best advice i can give you is to just take it one step at a time. this is why we have created our paid courses. we walk you through every step of the way but more importantly, at the right time – so you aren’t trying to do everything at once. 1. start. find your blogging niche (use… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest paulo hi alex & lauren, indeed a great article, not because you are guiding people how to do things right, but because you guys wanted to share your first failure. well that´s not usual for marketers and gurus in nowadays. loved to read this article and a few others about pinterest, they are very well structured congrats. paulo you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren thanks for stopping by and checking us out, paulo! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest schwabby just found your site (on pinterest), i will be reading it for awhile! thank you for sharing this. as i was reading through this i saw a lot of errors, left out words, extra words….no big deal you are human, but i have been told that is a big no-no when blogging. my lack of proper grammar skills has held me back from starting a blog. is it because you are established that this is not a factor? or is it just not as important as what some people emphasize? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren it is a big no-no, but we are human. we even have grammar tools that catch most of the mistakes. sadly left out words and extra words aren’t usually caught by the software and i still happen to miss them at times even when i proofread our articles more than once. you should always do your best to have spell-checked and grammatically accurate posts at all times, but i think most readers also understand that you are human and don’t judge too harshly (depending on the severity of the mistakes). we do have people that point it out every once… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents our first health and fitness blog we put ourselves first we took all the wrong moves in all the wrong places we tried to monetize before driving traffic we didn’t prioritize building an email list we didn’t have any good guidance how to know if it’s time to call it quits on your blog and start over footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz