toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog september 25, 2019 \ lorraine \ 72 comments why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) last updated on: september 25th, 2019 a business evaluation can provide you with valuable insight as to how your business is making money and how you’re spending it. taking a closer look at your finances can reveal things you never knew about your company’s finances, and where you need to plug potential holes in your expenses. here are 5 things you should evaluate when performing your business evaluation. business evaluation component #1: employee performance labor is probably the biggest expense for your business, and if your employees aren’t measuring up to certain standards, you’re throwing away your money. as business owners, we set standards to ensure that we’re paying employees fair wages, based on what they can do and how well they perform in their areas of expertise. if employees aren’t measuring up, it’s time to take a look at how this really impacts your finances. let’s say you’re paying someone $50,000 per year for a high-level job that requires a lot of work. this employee has continuously failed to meet goals throughout the year, causing other employees to have to pick up the slack and help do their job. not only is this detrimental to the cost of keeping this employee on the payroll, but it can cause serious frustration and extra work for other employees. if someone on the payroll isn’t measuring up, perform a review twice a year and give them goals to reach. if they continuously fail to meet those goals, it may be time to consider seeking out a new person to fill that position. additionally, because blogging can help your business thrive, you should be sure to hire bloggers who can create compelling content for you on a regular basis. this will help boost your brand’s visibility online as well as help you rank in the search engines. business evaluation component #2: fixed and variable expenses every financial review should include both fixed and variable expenses. fixed expenses are things that don’t change (such as your building’s rent or mortgage payment, or the financing for the company vehicles). variable expenses vary according to their use (such as phone bills, utility bills, advertising, etc.). fixed expenses should always be deducted from your gross income, and variable expenses should have a budget that will help keep costs to a minimum. since variable expenses are so flexible, ensure you have a fixed ceiling on these expenses; in other words, an amount that they absolutely must not exceed. deduct this from your monthly gross for a more accurate picture of your net income. business evaluation component #3: marketing costs and roi marketing probably accounts for a large portion of your budget, as it should. marketing is essential to the continued growth of your business. you need to keep current customers engaged and potential customers aware that your brand exists. marketing might involve spending money on ads, creating and promoting a book for your business, or hiring a marketing firm to help you promote your business. while marketing is an essential component, so is ensuring you’re getting an roi from it, or a return on investment. if your marketing expenses are high, but you’re not seeing an influx or are seeing a drop in customer interaction, you’re not getting an roi. this can mean it’s time to take a closer look at your marketing efforts and decide what you can do to improve brand awareness and attract new leads. maybe you need to hire a top-notch freelance writer to create copy for your website so you can boost your sales! if you perform in-house marketing, it may actually be more affordable for your business to hire an outside marketing firm with proven results. this will help ensure an roi for your marketing efforts and guarantee that what you’re paying for can produce the results you want. take a look at this article about how marketing firms can help your business. business evaluation component #4: tax deductions while you’re performing your business evaluation, make sure you’re accounting for all of your tax-deductible items. save receipts and invoices for all of your company’s expenses throughout the year, no matter how small or trivial they may seem. anything you can claim as a deduction will help you recover some of your business’s expenses, putting more money back into the business account and creating more opportunity for growth. don’t underestimate expenses like gasoline and mileage for company vehicles, or even office supplies like printer ink and paper. anytime your business incurs an expense, keep a record of that expense so when you file your taxes, you’ll have an easy-to-access collection of expense reports. business evaluation component #5: new expenses have you incurred any new expenses since the beginning of the year? perhaps you decided the business needs a video conferencing solution or maybe you have hired someone to create stunning infographics for your website. any new costs that have come about since your last evaluation should be accounted for and added to your monthly expenditure list. this includes new phones, vehicles, legal expenses, travel expenses, and financial advisors. having a financial advisor can help your business immensely. you can find one either locally or online. (you can compare the 5 best financial advisors in texas on the careful cents site.) if you’ve switched to different materials for your products that cost more, you’ll want to document those as well for when you file your taxes. the best practice when you’re in business is to simply document everything. the more documentation you have, the better. accuracy is essential for filing your taxes, as any errors can come back to haunt you in the form of fees or penalties later on. conclusion your mid-year expense evaluation should include everything your company spends money on, including labor, materials, office supplies, marketing, etc., so you can experience entrepreneurial excellence and success. be sure to make a thorough and accurate report so you can take a detailed look at where your money is going. the more accurate the report is, the better chance you’ll have at trimming down expenses where necessary and maximizing your net profit. don’t forget the little things, and remember to document everything! blogging \ business, expenses, money about lorraine lorraine reguly, b.a./b.ed., is an author and english teacher-turned-freelancer for hire. her life journey is motivational and inspirational. lorraine's book, from nope to hope, is a self-help book designed to help anyone who wishes to lead a happier life, and contains a built-in workbook. lorraine offers 4 different services on wording well, including writing/blogging, and editing. she also helps others become published authors! check out her services and see what she can do for you. you can also visit her author site, laying it out there. and don't forget to pick up your free copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! 72 thoughts on “why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at)” hpsetuponline says february 25, 2020 at 5:37 am thanks for your amazing blog post, i have learned so much on this topic. i appreciate your hard work. one of the best guides on business evaluation. reply lorraine says march 7, 2020 at 8:35 am thanks! reply ana11 says january 30, 2020 at 10:01 pm gracias por su artículo que detalla la importancia de la evaluación comercial. es obligatorio hacerlo al menos para estandarizar la confiabilidad de nuestro negocio o servicio. quiero apoyar más: el beneficio de la ontología empresa en la identificación de componentes comerciales reply lorraine says february 11, 2020 at 8:18 pm de nada! reply sajan kota says january 24, 2020 at 2:57 pm hi lorraine, very well written blog post. you have listed some of the best ways to evaluate your business. there is a common misconception that you should think about evaluation of our business only when you are seeking an outside investment. evaluation of our business is the key to understanding where your business stands. it helps you understand where your business stands finance and helps you identify the mistake that you are making in your business and how to improve your business. reply lorraine says february 11, 2020 at 8:34 pm sajan, you made some excellent points in that comment. thank you! we should always evaluate our businesses! reply anil kumar says january 23, 2020 at 5:25 am hey lorraine, thanks for sharing the interesting article. it is helpful in increasing the business. reply lorraine says february 11, 2020 at 8:37 pm you’re welcome, anil! i’m glad you enjoyed it. reply alexa says january 23, 2020 at 1:41 am thanks for your amazing blog post, i have learned so much on this topic. i appreciate your hard work. one of the best guides on business evaluation. alexa recently posted…our college common room paragraph reply lorraine says february 11, 2020 at 8:39 pm alexa, i’m glad you liked it! reply ravi kumar says january 22, 2020 at 7:48 am a blog page has undoubtedly become the heart of any business. it helps every business in ranking new keywords and keeping the website active. it not only maintains the online presence of a business, but also brings new potential customers. thank you so much for this amazing and informative blog post. i found it very informative. thanks again, dear. ravi kumar recently posted…10 reasons to take the pmp certification in 2020! reply lorraine says february 11, 2020 at 8:38 pm ravi, i’m glad you liked it! i’m also glad it helped. reply joe edwards says january 19, 2020 at 1:34 pm hi lorraine, i’m just starting up a blog/business based in the vegan space. thanks for your advice, especially the importance of hiring professional writers for content. i was initially going to be writing content myself and with a friend, but we’re not experienced writers and it’s a cornerstone of the business. i may be in touch to request your copywriting services sometime in the near future! 🙂 – joe reply lorraine says january 20, 2020 at 1:08 am joe, congratulations! feel free to email me with details! reply lina madi says january 15, 2020 at 6:47 pm a long informative post lorraine reply lorraine says january 20, 2020 at 1:11 am thanks, lina! reply ray says january 14, 2020 at 5:54 am evaluation of our business is an obvious thing. because. a evaluation can provide us necessary information which includes pros and cons, profit and loss etc. also, we will get to know about loopholes of our business which we might need to be solved. the 5 evaluations is the exact thing which will provide us about those details which we will need. thank you so much for sharing those 5 essential things which we should evaluate. it will definitely help us a lot. ray recently posted…jewelry product photography: shooting and editing ring in photoshop cc18 reply lorraine says january 20, 2020 at 1:13 am ray, thanks for your comment. i’m glad this article helped you. reply diya says january 10, 2020 at 10:01 am hi i am owning an online store which is selling home decors, as a first-generation entrepreneur, i am struggling to scale my business, managing the accounts, i thought my business is doing great but after all expenses, profit is very low, and i don’t where i am loosing that, so i started reading blogs about scaling my business and i come up with your article, which gave me clear idea about scaling my business thank you reply lorraine says january 14, 2020 at 12:28 am diya, hire a business coach. reply dr. shubham says january 10, 2020 at 7:40 am a long informative post herein. this is my first time to your blog; i visited through a comment you drop on moses’ blog. i will say, your business tips here will help me and others to elevate our business. super solid tips here, lorraine. a little review goes a long way in helping you gain clarity. thanks for sharing this. dr. shubham recently posted…best offset smokers in 2020 – user buying guide reply lorraine says january 14, 2020 at 12:29 am thanks! i appreciate the visit! reply santtu seppänen says january 9, 2020 at 7:51 am “taking a closer look at your finances can reveal things you never knew about your company’s finances, and where you need to plug potential holes in your expenses.” i think this is on point. a lot of the time i am actually suprised how many sort of hidden expenses add up during the year and when evaluating once in a while, i find suprisingly many “holes” as you say to plug. -santtu santtu seppänen recently posted…how to get testimonials for your business reply lorraine says january 14, 2020 at 12:31 am santtu, part of running a business is having expenses, but that doesn’t mean we have to waste money unnecessarily. keeping an eye on your expenses and evaluating your business is a great practice to help grow your business and curb your unneeded expenses! reply lorenzo gutierrez says january 8, 2020 at 12:47 am cool article lorraine. i enjoyed reading it. reply lorraine says january 14, 2020 at 12:34 am thanks, lorenzo! tell me how your company boosts brand/business awareness on social media. i’m curious… reply stephan moerman says january 7, 2020 at 3:11 pm great tips lorraine, especially the part about marketing costs and roi – even if businesss owners do calculate their (cac) customer acquisition cost, but don’t always consider the ltv (lifetime value) a customer can offer to their business. stumbled upon your blog recently, but will definitely keep coming back for more! reply lorraine says january 14, 2020 at 12:35 am stephan, thanks for the compliment. definitely visit again. be sure to check out the freebies on the resource kit page! reply sam patel says december 27, 2019 at 2:23 am hello lorraine, this is an interesting and informative article. you are a great author also you have great knowledge. thank you for sharing. reply lorraine says december 27, 2019 at 7:10 pm thanks, sam! reply lisa says december 26, 2019 at 2:40 am wow! these are all great steps, we should struggle with them from time to time. and, you bring up them outstanding – time is precious, so we need to make sure we use it wisely! reply lorraine says december 27, 2019 at 7:11 pm lisa, we definitely do, especially when we are growing our businesses! reply billy burger says december 23, 2019 at 1:27 pm hi loraine, it’s quite shocking for me that you were not a business student still you have great knowledge about the business processes and evaluation. the points you have mentioned are the key factors in measuring the success of the business. thanks for sharing. billy burger recently posted…services we offer reply lorraine says december 27, 2019 at 7:22 pm billy, i learned my business skills from working for others and also from running my own business! reply jessica jones says december 20, 2019 at 7:33 am lorraine, such a good read today. being busy, we often forget about looking back at our roi’s. it can be anything like money or even time. it matters. thanks for tweaking our minds, lorraine. jessica jones recently posted…wordpress speed optimization hacks – speed up your site to load within a second reply lorraine says december 20, 2019 at 2:40 pm jessica, i always look at my roi, especially when it comes to platforms like facebook (where i get the least roi for my business but the most for my social life). i’m glad you enjoyed the post! reply tejas says december 19, 2019 at 11:45 pm hi lorraine, it is very awesome 😍😍😍 arical you provide us thank you so much for providing this and plz always provide us … thank again 😊😊 tejas recently posted…star wars: the rise of skywalker (2019) full movie in hd reply lorraine says december 20, 2019 at 2:41 pm tejas, you’re welcome. do drop by again! reply srikanth says december 4, 2019 at 7:35 am great article lorraine !!!! yeah it is important to keep a check on financial outflow in business like spending money on employees, advertisement, taxes or on a new product. reply lorraine says december 11, 2019 at 7:25 am thanks. i agree! reply pinoy tv replay says november 27, 2019 at 5:00 am i start my tasks early and finish them early. i double check my work to prevent problems. i measure my success on the number of new customers. reply lorraine says december 1, 2019 at 7:38 pm that’s great! new customers aren’t the only metric you should be looking at, though. you should also look at other things when you evaluate your business. read the article again! reply david hilcher says november 19, 2019 at 9:54 pm i know it is much harder with a small enterprise, but everyone needs to benchmark themselves to ensure they stay in the game. on top of that, prof clayton christensen has a good read on ‘disruptive innovation’. each year do your swot. put in the improvements to lift yourself up using continuous innovation. but the real disruption comes when you think like an entrant going after your own market. that’s when you really start to hit the numbers. david hilcher brisbane reply lorraine says november 25, 2019 at 1:43 am great tip, david! reply jean francois charpenet says november 19, 2019 at 7:17 am great article lorraine. i think we can definitely say you have expertise in company growth. cheers ! reply lorraine says november 25, 2019 at 1:43 am thanks, jean! reply jay says november 3, 2019 at 10:04 am thanks lorraine for this wonderful post! one thing i always do for my business is evaluate the performance of my employees. if something is off, i’d find i way to fix it asap. reply lorraine says november 5, 2019 at 5:47 pm jay, that’s what i do, too! have a great day! reply aria mathew says november 1, 2019 at 9:19 pm lorraine, thanks for your article detailing the importance of business evaluation. it’s mandatory to do so at least to standardize our business or service reliability. without which, there is no point in promoting it. to make sure that we are moving in the right path towards our goal, we should evaluate and analyze the inputs and outputs periodically. aria mathew recently posted…seo-friendly web design is made easier with these 7 simple ways! reply lorraine says november 5, 2019 at 5:48 pm aria, i agree with you completely! thanks for your comment! reply richard says october 25, 2019 at 8:35 am a good solidly written article lorraine. even as an employee you need to be part of the thinking for example the roi on any projects and work, not just on the marketing. reply lorraine says october 29, 2019 at 1:12 am richard, that’s an excellent point! reply smart home says october 25, 2019 at 6:35 am a business evaluation can provide with valuable insight as to how a business is making money. this blog contain 5 things to evaluate when performing a business evaluation.thanks for sharing this types of content. reply lorraine says october 29, 2019 at 1:12 am you’re welcome! reply sathish arumugam says october 22, 2019 at 6:00 am lorraine, without business evaluation, we can’t even say our business is successful or not. even to allocate a marketing budget for the upcoming year, analyzing the previous year’s marketing expenses and roi is crucial. running a business with random inputs never works. thanks for reminding people to think about business evaluation periodically to bring it up successfully. above all, being a blogging friend, i still admire how i missed commenting on your blogs. i have read some of your articles about writing though 🙂 sathish arumugam recently posted…anchor text ratio guide: don’t over optimize & hit by google penalties reply lorraine says october 22, 2019 at 1:22 pm sathish, i agree with you completely and thank you for adding these valuable points to the discussion! it’s not always feasible to spend time commenting but i appreciate that you are still reading my blog posts! lorraine reply mohan kakarla says october 18, 2019 at 4:47 am your tips regarding business evaluation ae pretty awesome. reply lorraine says october 19, 2019 at 4:50 am thanks, mohan! reply vimalpal says october 10, 2019 at 12:25 am hello lorraine, you have explain all the points very well. your work is praise i have already wrote on this topic the link of my blog is given below vimalpal recently posted…best steps to create a facebook business page reply lorraine says october 16, 2019 at 1:26 am thanks for the compliment! reply pws digital says october 6, 2019 at 7:55 am love this article and the tips on how to blog as an authority. i think it has inspired me today, to study and research more on the web hosting topics i write on my blog. thanks! reply lorraine says october 7, 2019 at 12:06 am you’re welcome! reply joseph chikeleze says october 5, 2019 at 11:44 am a long informative post herein. this is my first time to your blog; i visited through a comment you drop on moses blog. i will say, your business tips here will help me and others to elevate our business. thanks a lot for the post. joseph chikeleze recently posted…seorocket blogger template – best seo optimized blog theme reply lorraine says october 7, 2019 at 12:07 am joseph, thanks for the visit and the comment. i hope this helps you with your business! reply amar kumar says october 1, 2019 at 7:29 am hey lorraine, you have explored these business evaluation component very genuinely and these factors are impactful when it comes to own business. it goes without saying that the success of your company largely depends on how well employees perform their tasks. yet, you would not be the first company to struggle with defining what that looks like. the best place to start when you want to know how to improve employee performance is gaining an understanding. eventually, thanks for sharing these worthy information with us. thanking you. with best regards, amar kumar reply lorraine says october 7, 2019 at 12:13 am amar, thanks for adding your comment here. i am glad you appreciated the information about evaluating your business. i know that you are a blogger who works very hard on his business! reply chrism says september 28, 2019 at 5:16 pm i start my tasks early and finish them early. i double check my work to prevent problems. i measure my success on the number of new customers. chris reply lorraine says september 30, 2019 at 12:21 pm chris, that’s a fantastic strategy! congratulations on your success! reply aliyan rana says september 26, 2019 at 7:33 am accuracy is essential for filing your taxes, as any errors can come back to haunt you in the form of fees or penalties later on. reply lorraine says september 30, 2019 at 12:22 pm aliyan, you’re right. it’s always best to be accurate so you don’t have to pay fees or fines! reply ryan k biddulph says september 25, 2019 at 4:01 pm super solid tips here, lorraine. a little review goes a long way in helping you gain clarity. you cannot stick your head in the sand and run a successful venture. careful, deliberate analysis helps you succeed. reply lorraine says september 30, 2019 at 12:24 pm ryan, thanks for your comment. it’s important to evaluate your business so you can see where you need to improve. i like how you do regular evaluations on blogging from paradise. your success proves that this is important! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website you must enable javascript to be able to comment current [email protected] * leave this field empty ← previous post next post → wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy