home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now entrepreneurship | leadership why you should still be charging for your products michael and megan 00:26:56 download transcript you’ve probably noticed the trend in the last week of businesses offering products or services for free to help out during the covid-19 crisis. i applaud the impulse, but there’s a fatal flaw in the logic—the economy depends on people creating value and other people recognizing that value and willingly paying for it. now is the time to pivot, innovate, and leverage every ounce of your creativity to survive and thrive as a company. that’s good for your business, your customers, your employees, your community, and the economy at large. today, we’re going to give you three solid reasons why you need to be charging for your products and services, especially now. in this episode, you’ll discover— the positives and negatives of giving away your products for free during times of crisis how you can help alleviate the negative impact of the covid-19 pandemic on the economy examples of times when generosity got in the way of transformation what giving things away won’t do for you how to provide lasting hope, recovery, and opportunity by finding new ways to add value for your customers resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe the vision driven leader posted on thursday, march 26, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed