start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising happiness mental strength advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void melissa burns melissa is an entrepreneur and independent journalist. she writes about communication, entrepreneurship and success on lifehack. read full profile share pin it tweet share email let’s imagine the situation when you struggle with ignoring and escaping the feeling of extreme purposelessness and emptiness. although you know a little about what you enjoy, want from life and what you want to achieve in future, you are still tortured by the episodes of loneliness. when you’re feeling empty, what does this mean exactly? and why do you feel empty? table of contents what it means when you're feeling empty symptoms of emptiness and void why do you feel empty? how to deal with inner emptiness final thoughts more to help you fill that void what it means when you’re feeling empty inner emptiness is caused by a lack of love according to psychology expert, dr. margaret paul.[1] when you don’t love yourself, ignore your feelings and always try to get attention and approval from others, you can experience the inner emptiness. all people are creative and full of potential, but not all of them use this potential and thus, waste their time and energy. we try to fill the void with food, relationships, work, and things that are supposed to distract our attention. symptoms of emptiness and void in order to find the solution to the problem, we should learn how to tell whether we’re feeling empty inside. understanding emptiness calls us to learn more about our inner feelings. let’s have a look at the most common symptoms of emptiness and void: advertising you don’t understand who you are and your purpose in life; you are full of negative thoughts; you always seek for approval from family and friends; you don’t know how to explain your feelings. sometimes, emptiness feels like an inner void, vacuum or a black hole. why do you feel empty? the most important thing to realize is that emptiness is a state of lack. majority of people who struggle with a chronic sense of emptiness had parents who were incapable of intimate relationships with them. when you do not get enough love and attention in the childhood, you start to believe that you are not good enough. that means that the real cause of inner emptiness is a lack of emotional connection and demonstration of love.[2] as a result, this feeling can travel through our lives like baggage. the lack of belonging becomes a traumatic imprint that becomes so acutely uncomfortable that we are willing to do anything we can to get away from that particular feeling. although this feeling is not uncommon for many people, if left unattended, it can result in a chronic disorder such as depression. furthermore, people tend to get out of this feeling with alcohol and drugs, which increases the chance of drug or alcohol addiction. that’s why having a clue about what is really important to you will help to know what causes you to feel empty inside. how to deal with inner emptiness the key is fighting emptiness is to find out what you are missing. is it a sense of belonging, meaning or interpersonal connection? here are several suggestions from leading experts of how to recognize and deal with inner emptiness. advertising 1. refocus and rebalance yourself according to kaitlyn slight, a marriage and family therapist in raleigh, n.c., we should focus on ourselves and spend more time thinking about our desires.[3] in order to be in a positive state of body and mind, you can spend several minutes meditating or exercising. the easiest way to rebalance yourself emotionally and physically is to take a warm bath.[4] many researches have shown that bathing has a lot of benefits including pain relief, enhanced mobility, and improved psychological well-being.[5] while it’s easy to get distracted by all the negative emotions you’re feeling, it’s important to recenter yourself by taking good care of yourself. try to pick up some of these 30 self-care habits for a strong and healthy mind, body and spirit. 2. find your needs with the help of others everybody has needs, but what makes the needs painful is when we think we cannot get what we need. we think that we have to meet them by ourselves, but sometimes, it is important to take action to get up and find someone to meet the need. asking for help can resolve many life issues and can be a first step towards meeting your needs. for example, if your need is for the company you don’t have to spend your time to figure out how to be your own company. just go find a company. advertising if you find it difficult to ask for help, check out these tips: how to ask for help when you feel silly to do so 3. appreciate and treasure what you have another way to heal your inner emptiness is through gratitude. research suggests that feeling grateful is a very important positive emotion that allows people to expand their worldview and the view of themselves, which later leads to building better social relations and skills.[6] this means that individuals who are thankful are also more satisfied with their relationships with friends and family as well as they are less stressed and much happier. try to be appreciative for what is around you by noticing all good things we take for granted. a simple compliment given during the day will show you how much positive energy you can create. these 32 things you should be grateful for can inspire you to be more grateful today. 4. never stop exploring something new neurobiologists have found out that learning something new has motivational effects similar to dopamine which leads to the emotional arousal.[7] that’s why each time you review the information you’ve learned before, add a couple of new facts. another good tip is to change your environment. even such little things as changing lighting or temperature in your room can have a positive effect on your emotional state. advertising 5. ask for a professional help if needed many people cannot identify the reason behind this feeling no matter how long they psychoanalyzed themselves and searched for a problem. the main thing is not to give up! find a good therapist who will help you to find the causations of the inner void from the past and bring them to the present moment so that you can become whole again. final thoughts finding the cause of inner emptiness can be a challenging and long process. but instead of distracting yourself by filling this emptiness with things like shopping, food, alcohol and drugs, you’d better find out what makes you feel incomplete and regain your happiness. more to help you fill that void 7 things to remember when you feel broken inside how to find the purpose of life and start living a fulfilling life 10 things that happen when you start to enjoy being alone featured photo credit: fabrizio verrecchia via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ dr. margaret paul: are you living your life or just getting it over with? [2] ^ huffington post: the real cause of inner emptiness (and what to do about it) [3] ^ psychcentral: when you feel empty: what it means & what to do [4] ^ arjohuntleigh: therapeutic benefit of a hot bath [5] ^ better bathrooms: the physiological and psychological effects of bathing [6] ^ positive psychology program: broaden-and-build theory of positive emotions (+pdf) [7] ^ science daily: pure novelty spurs the brain share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 30 self-care habits for a strong and healthy mind, body and spirit how to ask for help when you feel silly to do so 7 things to remember when you feel broken inside advertising advertising more by this author melissa burns melissa is an entrepreneur and independent journalist. she writes about communication, entrepreneurship and success on lifehack. why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void wealthy, successful people who choose less over more: 10 real-life stories of minimalists if you want to succeed in life, you need to find your true calling first everything we can learn from the most famous entrepreneurs around the world why is empathy so important? advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author melissa burns melissa is an entrepreneur and independent journalist. she writes about communication, entrepreneurship and success on lifehack. why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void wealthy, successful people who choose less over more: 10 real-life stories of minimalists if you want to succeed in life, you need to find your true calling first everything we can learn from the most famous entrepreneurs around the world why is empathy so important? trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how to find the purpose of life and start living a fulfilling life the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.