terms privacy center back privacy center topics products third parties california privacy rights dashboard & controls relevant advertising intellectual property back intellectual property counterfeit goods counter notice process repeat infringer policy trademarks permissions closed captioning guidelines terms privacy center topics products third parties california privacy rights dashboard & controls relevant advertising intellectual property counterfeit goods counter notice process repeat infringer policy trademarks permissions closed captioning guidelines why this ad? for consumers the sites and apps you use work with online advertising companies to provide you with advertising that is as relevant and useful as possible. personalization may be informed by various factors such as the content of the site or app you are using, information you provide, historical searches you conduct, what your friends or contacts recommend to you, apps on your device, or based on your other interests. read about verizon media's privacy and advertising practices to learn more about how verizon media selects the ads you see. who placed this ad? this ad was served by verizon media or one of verizon media's advertising partners. why was this ad served? certain factors like your activity, searches, demographic data, apps on your device, and location information may be used to select the ads you see. what choices do i have? manage interest-based advertising categories, or opt-out of all categories, from verizon media. view our other privacy controls. visit the network advertising initiative (us) and the digital advertising alliance - daa (us), edaa (eu), daac (canada), adaa (au/nz) to see your opt-out choices from other participating companies. explore other controls and tools to help set and maintain your privacy choices. if you are using safari or a browser enabled with intelligent tracking protection (itp) or similar cookie-blocking technology, if you wish to opt out of receiving personalized ads, you will need to do so directly via the verizon media privacy center. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved.