home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library holidays latest articles travel prevnext why disneyland paris should be the number one summer holiday destination this year leyla preston mon 8th may 2017 104shares share tweet pin if you have been living under a rock, you may not know that disneyland paris is celebrating its 25th birthday this year. to mark the occasion mickey and friends have decided to venture ahead and become explorers of the future in a whopping new parade with all the disney favourites and more. their mission as they have chosen to accept it is to dazzle guests with super sparkly star tours, starlit princess waltz, disney illuminations and other awesome events. you can find out about all the new events over in my earlier post on disneyland paris’ 25th anniversary or on disneyland paris’ website, but here is a rundown of why you should take the kids to disneyland paris this summer holiday. table of contents disneyland paris is bigger and better than ever before two new shows in front of sleeping beauty castle you’ll spot a few celebrities at the park too discounted travel and accommodation there is so much more to come this summer holiday! here are a few more reasons to head to disneyland paris this summer awesome dining experiences disney illuminations star tours: the adventure continues fantasy land – it’s a small world discoveryland disneyland paris is bigger and better than ever before disneyland paris, europe’s number one destination, has welcomed more than 300 million visits since its opening in 1992 (13.4 million visits in 2016). the resort boasts two spectacular theme parks, disneyland paris and walt disney studios park, and seven themed hotels with 5,800 rooms (more than 2,700 rooms are available in selected and associated hotels). you can also enjoy two full-service convention centres and a world-class 27-hole golf course. disney village, which is one of the largest entertainment complexes in the ile-de-france region, spreads over more than 30,000m² and includes themed dining, shopping and cinema experiences.* disneyland paris comprises of over 59 attractions, 63 shops and 55 restaurants. there is so much to experience that you may not get to see everything in one holiday! two new shows in front of sleeping beauty castle to mark the 25th anniversary of disneyland paris, mickey will be dressed in his best to present the grand surprise in front of sleeping beauty castle. all his friends will gather and celebrate together at the top of the steps of the sparkling crystal castle to the sound of lively music, where guests are encouraged to join in and resound the musical chorus of “happy anniversary disneyland paris!” “it is rare that i get the opportunity to direct so many disney characters in one show… no one can make a grand entrance quite like mickey!” emmanuel lenormand, the show director. the same stage plays host to a real-life magical ball that will make any princess’ dreams come true. tinker bell waves her magic wand and the royal castle stage is transformed into a beautiful starlit ballroom where the disney princesses will waltz. aurora, ariel, belle, snow white, cinderella, jasmine, rapunzel and tiana will all be dressed in their stunning ball gowns and glide to the sound of a romantic fanfare. “one of the songs in the show is called “every girl can be a princess” and, as well as the eight princesses featured on stage, we all wanted all little girls in the audience to feel like princesses throughout this 25th anniversary year.” amanda cahen, the show director guests can enjoy both shows in the same location throughout this 25th anniversary year. you’ll spot a few celebrities at the park too as you’ll wander around the park, you may spot a celeb or two with their friends and family enjoying what disneyland paris has to offer. on 19 april 2017, disneyland paris teamed up with british airways to organise a day trip from the docklands to the park for the children and adults from three london charities, body and soul, fight for peace and oasis children’s venture. the charities are supported by flying start, which is british airways’ global charity partnership with comic relief. the magical day out was joined by some famous friends, including alesha dixon, stacey solomon, joe swash, louie spence and towie’s lydia bright discounted travel and accommodation disneyland paris has got a great offer on for guests visiting this spring/summer 2017, including the school holidays where you can get up to 20% off your hotel and park tickets package, plus a free half board meal plan for the whole party when you book by 19th july 2017. click here for more information. for the electroland premiere, you can get 30% off your hotel and ticket package if you book by 1st june 2017**. there is so much more to come this summer holiday! on saturday 8 july 2017, disneyland paris will be launching a ground-breaking, fully immersive one-day electronic music extravaganza called ‘electroland’ and will open its gates to 10,000 music fans to enjoy djs, partying and, of course, the park’s theme rides. you can read more about electroland here. here are a few more reasons to head to disneyland paris this summer no matter your preference, there will be something for everyone. here are some more reasons why you should take the family to disneyland paris: awesome dining experiences (family dining at bistrot chez remy) disney illuminations star tours: the adventure continues fantasy land – it’s a small world discoveryland buzz lightyear laser blast if you need to learn more about disneyland paris before you book, then check out my introductory post here or head over to disneyland paris’ website for more information. you can also stay updated on new events, discounts and offers by following disneyland paris closely via facebook, youtube or twitter. don’t forget that you have until 19th july 2017 to get up to 20% off your hotel and park tickets package, plus a free half board meal plan for the whole family. there really is no time to waste! it’s time to sparkle! * fireworks, parades, certain shows and festivals are on selected dates and are subject to weather conditions and changes. attractions, entertainment, shows, shops and restaurants may be closed, modified, delayed or cancelled without prior notice. for any additional information, please contact disneyland paris here. ** offer is only valid for new bookings and arrivals on 7th and 8th july 2017. unless otherwise stated, images are taken from disneyland paris’ website this post is sponsored by disneyland paris leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:disneylanddisneyland parisfamily holidaysummer holiday related posts top five family holiday destinations to ... ways you can save money on flight ticket... avoid holiday disasters – a guide ... 5 reasons to take the kids to mauritius ... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sard... prepare for ‘back to school’ with tutorf... 7 reasons why you should take the family... how to make the most of your family holi... 5 reasons why you should holiday in the ... benefits of using public transport over ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 104shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok