start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising success smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) carl pullein dedicated to helping people to achieve their maximum potential through better time management and productivity. read full profile share pin it tweet share email it’s very easy to go through life without ever having a worthwhile goal. it is very easy to avoid the challenge of setting goals and being accountable for achieving those goals. but without any goals, your life will drift and lack any meaningful purpose. the worst thing that could happen to you is to reach your final days and look back at your life, and wonder how you screwed up the amazing opportunity you had to build an incredibly rewarding life. in this article, we’ll look into the reasons why you should start setting future goals, and how to set ones that will help you lead a fulfilling life. table of contents why you need to set future goals how to begin developing future goals final thoughts more tips about setting & achieving goals why you need to set future goals the source of happiness having meaningful goals gives your life a purpose. it gives you a reason to wake up in the morning, get out of bed and live life with a direction. goals give you energy and vitality and something to aim for each day. ultimately, your happiness will be enhanced when you begin to see you are making progress on your goals, and as each day passes and you move that little bit closer to achieving what you set out to achieve you gain more focus and energy to push that little bit more. a roadmap to travel down but having goals is more than that. goals give you a roadmap to travel down. your goals could be related to your career. imagine you want to one day start your own business. an idea such as starting your own business begins as an image in your mind. as you think more about your idea, you start to visualize what it would be like to be running your own business. no boss breathing down your neck watching what you are doing, no annoying colleagues interrupting you with their problems and complaining about how much work they have to do. having the freedom to make your own decisions about what you will do and when. as you visualize your idea, you begin to ask yourself: how? how will i start my own business? what do i have to do to start? these questions are the beginnings of a plan and a goal is simply a plan for the future. advertising it does not have to be as professional as starting your own business. it could be wanting to climb mount kilimanjaro before your fiftieth birthday. once again, it begins with an idea, you may have seen a documentary about mount kilimanjaro, or a friend did it a few years ago and tells you it was one of the best experiences she had ever had in her life. wherever the inspiration comes from, you begin to visualise yourself climbing to the top, exhausted but exhilarated having achieved something only a very few people manage to do in their lifetimes. once again the question: “how?” jumps into your mind, and once again the beginnings of a plan begins to formulate. another goal. a clear intention to live when you think about it, our whole lives are centred around goals. getting up for work on a cold, wet monday morning requires the goal of getting out of bed at a specific time. not a pleasant goal for many, but it’s a goal nonetheless. getting home in time for dinner with your family is a goal. pretty much everything we want to do and achieve in our lives requires an intent to achieve something. that is what goals are. an intention to do something by a specific time. how to begin developing future goals 1. start with your vision begin with a vision of what you want to achieve. whether it is a professional or personal goal, you need to have a clear vision of what it is you want to achieve. take some time to really see what the end result will be like. close your eyes and see it, see yourself achieving your goal. if you want to build a secure financial future for yourself and your family, what will that look like? will that be cash in the bank or a portfolio of investments? if you want to take a holiday of a lifetime with your closest friends this summer, where will you go? what will you do? imagine yourself already achieving your goal. how will you feel? advertising feel those emotions in your imagination. feel the smile on your face, feel the laughter, the joy and the excitement as you board the plane. you can get a little help from this article: the best way to create a vision for the life you want 2. ask the right questions the best question to ask is: what do i have to do to…? this is an incredibly powerful question because it opens up your mind to the possibility of achieving your goal. the way this question is phrased means you are only considering ways to achieve, not ways you cannot achieve. the wrong question to ask is “how can i achieve this goal?” that question often elicits the tempting answer “you can’t”. what you want to be doing is opening your mind up to possibilities and the actions you will have to take to make it happen. now the “what do i have to do?” question often brings up actions you may at first feel are impossible, so you ask the question again. for example, let’s say you want to build a secure future for you and your family, and your initial answer comes up with a figure of usd$1 million. now if you are earning usd$50,000 a year, that means you will have to work at least forty years saving half your salary each month. let’s be honest here, that is not going to be easy and for forty years, probably impossible. so you will need to ask the question again. “what do i have to do to have usd1 million in savings by the time i retire?” the answers you come up with from asking this question again will take you closer towards building your goal into achievable steps. 3. look at your daily habits our daily habits and behaviors are the driving force behind the results we achieve in our lives. if you smoke twenty cigarettes every day, drink several glasses of wine each evening and go to bed slightly drunk, over time, this will have a profoundly negative effect on your health. if it does not send you to an early grave, you are almost certainly going to experience difficulties with your health at some point in time. advertising couple that with eating unhealthily and being excessively overweight, you are going to become a burden on your family and friends later in life. because our daily habits and behaviors have such a large impact on the results we achieve in our lives, you should take some time to analyze yours. identify the ones that give you negative results. unhealthy eating, excessive drinking, smoking, complaining and gossiping are common ones, but others such as waking up at the last possible moment, going to bed late and spending all night playing computer games are a few others that, over time, will result in negative outcomes in your life. if you want to climb mount kilimanjaro before you turn fifty, then get yourself out in the evening and exercise. turn it into a habit. spend thirty minutes every morning reading about and researching mount kilimanjaro instead of checking your email, facebook or instagram feed. use your time in more positive ways. this guide can give you some nice advice on how to quit bad habits: how to break a habit and hack the habit loop 4. set a date if your goals do not have a timeline and an end date, you will find excuses to put off what you need to do to make it happen. you can, of course, adjust your deadline if you find you were a little too ambitious with your initial enthusiasm. but you do need a deadline. if your goal is to have usd $1 million by the time you retire, your goal needs to be based on what you need to have saved by the end of the year. for most of us, retirement may be quite a few years away, but by beginning now, you will give yourself enough time to build up your savings and investments. likewise, if your goal is to run a full course marathon before you turn forty, then depending on how old you are today, you may want to set goals for running a 5km, 10km and half-marathon each year before you run the big one. advertising setting dates and deadlines gives you the sense of urgency you need to make progress. you do not have to achieve the ‘big goal’ in the first year, but you do need to have an annual goal that is taking you a little closer each day, month and year toward the big, future goal. 5. visualize and review regularly whatever your future goals are, you should have some form of vision board to keep you reminded of your final destination. whether that is having a secure financial future, climbing mount kilimanjaro or running a full course marathon, having some form of vision board — either digital in the form of a photo album in your digital photo storage, or a board on pinterest or a physical board in your room with photographs and clippings of what you want to do — will help keep you motivated when you feel ‘not in the mood’. it will give you something visual to help you review your progress and adjust deadlines if necessary. final thoughts we are all different and we all want different things in our lives. many of us want to build a successful business, others want to develop a successful career in medicine or law. whatever it is you want out of life, it is your life and it is up to you to create it. you have the good fortune to be able to decide, act and achieve and it all starts with an idea and a vision, then a few questions the answers to which will give you a plan and a destination to travel towards. don’t waste this chance. you do not want to end your days full of regret and disappointment. you want to end your days knowing you lived an extraordinary life on your terms. more tips about setting & achieving goals how setting personal goals makes you a greater achiever how to use smart goal to become highly successful in life how smart goal setting makes lasting changes in your life featured photo credit: evan kirby via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what are smart goals (and how to use them to become successful) how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to makes lasting changes with smart goal setting advertising advertising more by this author carl pullein dedicated to helping people to achieve their maximum potential through better time management and productivity. why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) how to use deep work to wipe out distractions and boost productivity 7 ways minimalist living improves your productivity what is a bullet journal and what are the benefits? how to focus and concentrate better to boost productivity advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author carl pullein dedicated to helping people to achieve their maximum potential through better time management and productivity. why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) how to use deep work to wipe out distractions and boost productivity 7 ways minimalist living improves your productivity what is a bullet journal and what are the benefits? how to focus and concentrate better to boost productivity trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how creating a vision board will empower you to manifest your dream life how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising advertising work smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) brian lee chief of product management at lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email taking your work to the next level means setting and keeping career goals. a career goal is a targeted objective that explains what you want your ultimate profession to be. defining career goals is a critical step to achieving success. you need to know where you’re going in order to get there. knowing what your career goals are isn’t just important for you–it’s important for potential employers too. the relationship between an employer and an employee works best when your goals for the future and their goals align. saying, “oh, i don’t know. i’ll do anything,” makes you seem indecisive, and opens you up to taking on ill-fitting tasks that won’t lead you to your dream life. career goal templates’ one-size-fits-all approach won’t consider your unique goals and experiences. they won’t help you stand out, and they may not reflect your full potential. in this article, i’ll help you to define your career goals with smart goal framework, and will provide you with a list of examples goals for work and career. table of contents how to define your career goal with smart why you need an individual development plan 40 examples of goals for work & career for changing a job for switching career path for getting a promotion for acing a job interview career goal setting faqs summary more tips about setting work goals how to define your career goal with smart instead of relying on a generalized framework to explain your vision, use a tried-and-true goal-setting model. smart is an acronym for “specific, measurable, action-oriented, realistic with timelines.”[1] the smart framework demystifies goals by breaking them into smaller steps. helpful hints when setting smart career goals: advertising start with short-term goals first. work on your short-term goals, and then progress the long-term interests.[2] short-term goals are those things which take 1-3 years to complete. long-term goals take 3-5 years to do. as you succeed in your short-term goals, that success should feed into accomplishing your long-term goals. be specific, but don’t overdo it. you need to define your career goals, but if you make them too specific, then they become unattainable. instead of saying, “i want to be the next ceo of apple, where i’ll create a billion-dollar product,” try something like, “my goal is to be the ceo of a successful company.” get clear on how you’re going to reach your goals. you should be able to explain the actions you’ll take to advance your career. if you can’t explain the steps, then you need to break your goal down into more manageable chunks. don’t be self-centered. your work should not only help you advance, but it should also support the goals of your employer. if your goals differ too much, then it might be a sign that the job you’ve taken isn’t a good fit. if you want to learn more about setting smart goals, watch the video below to learn how you can set smart career goals. after you’re clear on how to set smart goals, you can use this framework to tackle other aspects of your work. for instance, you might set smart goals to improve your performance review, look for a new job, or shift your focus to a different career. we’ll cover examples of ways to use smart goals to meet short-term career goals in the next section. why you need an individual development plan setting goals is one part of the larger formula for success. you may know what you want to do, but you also have to figure out what skills you have, what you lack, and where your greatest strengths and weaknesses are. one of the best ways to understand your capabilities is by using the science careers individual development plan skills assessment. it’s free, and all you need to do is register an account and take a few assessments. advertising these assessments will help you determine if your career goals are realistic. you’ll come away with a better understanding of your unique talents and skill-sets. you may decide to change some of your career goals or alter your timeline based on what you learn. 40 examples of goals for work & career all this talk of goal-setting and self-assessment may sound great in theory, but perhaps you need some inspiration to figure out what your goals should be. for changing a job attend more networking events and make new contacts. achieve a promotion to __________ position. get a raise. plan and take a vacation this year. agree to take on new responsibilities. develop meaningful relationships with your coworkers and clients. ask for feedback on a regular basis. learn how to say, “no,” when you are asked to take on too much. delegate tasks that you no longer need to be responsible for. strive to be in a leadership role in __ number of years. for switching career path pick up and learn a new skill. find a mentor. become a volunteer in the field that interests you. commit to getting training or going back to school. read the most recent books related to your field. decide whether you are happy with your work-life balance and make changes if necessary. [3] plan what steps you need to take to change careers.[4] compile a list of people who could be character references or submit recommendations. commit to making __ number of new contacts in the field this year. create a financial plan. for getting a promotion reduce business expenses by a certain percentage. stop micromanaging your team members. become a mentor. brainstorm ways that you could improve your productivity and efficiency at work seek a new training opportunity to address a weakness.[5] find a way to organize your work space.[6] seek feedback from a boss or trusted coworker every week/ month/ quarter. become a better communicator. find new ways to be a team player. learn how to reduce work hours without compromising productivity. for acing a job interview identify personal boundaries at work and know what you should do to make your day more productive and manageable. identify steps to create a professional image for yourself. go after the career of your dreams to find work that does not feel like a job. look for a place to pursue your interest and apply your knowledge and skills. find a new way to collaborate with experts in your field. identify opportunities to observe others working in the career you want. become more creative and break out of your comfort zone. ask to be trained more relevant skills for your work. ask for opportunities to explore the field and widen your horizon set your eye on a specific award at work and go for it. career goal setting faqs i’m sure you still have some questions about setting your own career goals, so here i’m listing out the most commonly asked questions about career goals. 1. what if i’m not sure what i want my career to be? if you’re uncertain, be honest about it. let the employer know as much as you know about what you want to do. express your willingness to use your strengths to contribute to the company. when you take this approach, back up your claim with some examples. if you’re not even sure where to begin with your career, check out this guide: how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising 2. is it okay to lie about my career goals? lying to potential employers is bound to end in disaster. in the interview, a lie can make you look foolish because you won’t know how to answer follow up questions. even if you think your career goal may not precisely align with the employer’s expectations for a long-term hire, be open and honest. there’s probably more common ground than they realize, and it’s up to you to bridge any gaps in expectations. being honest and explaining these connections shows your employer that you’ve put a lot of thought into this application. you aren’t just telling them what they want to hear. 3. is it better to have an ambitious goal, or should i play it safe? you should have a goal that challenges you, but smart goals are always reasonable. if you put forth a goal that is way beyond your capabilities, you will seem naive. making your goals too easy shows a lack of motivation. employers want new hires who are able to self-reflect and are willing to take on challenges. 4. can i have several career goals? it’s best to have one clearly-defined career goal and stick with it. (of course, you can still have goals in other areas of your life.) having a single career goal shows that you’re capable of focusing, and it shows that you like to accomplish what you set out to do. advertising on the other hand, you might have multiple related career goals. this could mean that you have short-term goals that dovetail into your ultimate long-term career goal. you might also have several smaller goals that feed into a single purpose. for example, if you want to become a lawyer, you might become a paralegal and attend law school at the same time. if you want to be a school administrator, you might have initial goals of being a classroom teacher and studying education policy. in both cases, these temporary jobs and the extra education help you reach your ultimate goal. summary you’ll have to devote some time to setting career goals, but you’ll be so much more successful with some direction. remember to: set smart goals. smart goals are specific, measurable, action-oriented, and realistic with timelines. when you set goals with these things in mind, you are likely to achieve the outcomes you want. have short-term and long-term goals. short-term career goals can be completed in 1-3 years, while long-term goals will take 3-5 years to finish. your short-term goals should set you up to accomplish your long-term goals. assess your capabilities by coming up with an individual development plan. knowing how to set goals won’t help you if you don’t know yourself. understand what your strengths and weaknesses are by taking some self-assessments. choose goals that are appropriate to your ultimate aims. your career goals should be relevant to one another. if they aren’t, then you may need to narrow your focus. your goals should match the type of job that you want and the quality of life that you want to lead. be clear about your goals with potential employers. always be honest with potential employers about what you want to do with your life. if your goals differ from the company’s objectives, find a way bridge the gap between what you want for yourself and what your employer expects. by doing goal-setting work now, you’ll be able to make conscious choices on your career path. you can always adjust your plan if things change for you, but the key is to give yourself a road map for success. more tips about setting work goals 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 15 personal goals for work to make you stand out from your coworkers how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals featured photo credit: tyler franta via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ achievit: the history and evolution of smart goals [2] ^ she knows: career planning: smart goals [3] ^ career addict: 13 examples of achievable career goals [4] ^ job interview site.com: career goals: examples of career goals and objectives [5] ^ science: goal-setting strategies for scientific and career success [6] ^ udemy: career goal examples: top 6 achievable career goals share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 15 personal goals for work to help you succeed how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising advertising more by this author brian lee chief of product management at lifehack how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) how to answer behavioral based interview questions smartly 7 best project management apps to boost productivity 100 incredible life hacks that make life so much easier 10 best new products that people don’t know about advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.