wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] last updated on february 16th, 2019 by editorial staff 450 shares share tweet share pin we are getting tons of requests for a detailed tutorial on how to speed up your wordpress blog. in the past presentations, we have stressed a whole lot about cdn, but it still seems that we don’t clarify ourselves enough. many beginners still don’t understand what cdn is because we are constantly asked with the question, “would i still need hosting if i get a cdn?”. this is partially our fault for not making things clear. it was brought to our attention that every time we have written about cdn, we always ignore the basics. so in this article, we will make an attempt to explain what is a cdn, and why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog. update: just to clarify, cdn is something you use on top of having a web hosting account because it helps speed up things. cdn does not replace a web hosting account. you still need to have a hosting provider like siteground, bluehost, etc. infographic what is a cdn? cdn is short for content delivery network which is a network of servers that deliver cached static content from websites to users based on the geographic location of the user. pretty confusing eh? let’s break it down in simpler words. normally when a user comes to your wordpress blog, they are redirected to your web host’s server (i.e hostgator). your web host’s server is located at a central location i.e houston, tx. so every user on your website is accessing this one server to view your website. now if you have high volume of traffic, then you can overload your server which leads to a slow loading site or even server crash. this is where a cdn comes in handy because it is a network of servers, but most importantly these servers are spread through out the world. when you use a cdn, your static content is cached and stored on all of these servers. static content includes images, stylesheets (css files), javascripts, flash, etc. now when a user visits your site (original server), the cdn technology redirects them to the closest server to their location. for example: if your main server is hosted in houston, tx, and someone from durham, england tries to access it, then they will be redirected to the closest server which may be in london. this limits the number of internet hops needed to transmit the static files to your end user. user’s proximity to your web server has an impact on load time. by deploying your content across multiple geographically dispersed servers, you can make your pages load faster from the user’s perspective. this is when cdn comes in handy. in simple words, the closer the cdn server is to where your user is, the faster the user gets the content. why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? if you read the above section, then you can clearly see that having a cdn can make a huge impact on your website. below are some of the advantages that we have seen on our site by using a cdn: speed – once we started using a cdn on our site, the site got faster. crash resistance – thanks to you guys for sharing our articles, we have received huge spells of traffic from social media on some of our articles. if it wasn’t for the proper cdn and caching setup, then our site would crash so many times. cdn allows us to distribute the load to multiple servers instead of having 100% traffic to our main server thus making it less likely to crash. improved user experience – since we started using a cdn, we have noticed a decline in bounce rate on our site. furthermore, we have also seen increased in pageviews and numbers of pages viewed by each user. so clearly a fast site means improved user experience. improvement in seo – google has clearly stated that faster sites tend to rank higher in search engines. we have noticed our site ranking higher once we did the optimization on our site. we are using maxcdn on our site, and they are amazing. we have met the folks from maxcdn in person, and they are really great at support as well. you can also get 25% off your maxcdn purchase if you use the coupon code: “wpbeginner“. for more coupons, check out wpbeginner wordpress coupons. 450 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 96 commentsleave a reply abdullah says: may 6, 2019 at 9:57 pm hello will i be losing all my blog posts if i changed my host from hostgator to cdn network? reply wpbeginner support says: may 7, 2019 at 10:51 am no, you wouldn’t lose your posts when using a cdn reply chittar says: apr 29, 2019 at 11:25 am so far following great. just have to work on it. thanks for the fluid writing! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 29, 2019 at 1:32 pm glad you like our writing reply syed mujtaba says: aug 19, 2017 at 8:23 am you have told all about max cdn, where is cloud fare? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 20, 2017 at 8:35 am hi syed, please checkout how to setup cloudflare free cdn in wordpress. reply jim boult says: apr 5, 2017 at 3:49 am thank you for clarifying the purpose of a cdn. a very straightforward and easy to understand explanation. wpbeginner is a great resource and i’m starting to appreciate your value to the wordpress community! reply gagan says: mar 6, 2017 at 12:26 pm can you please compare some free cdn service for low traffic site which can’t afford services like max cdn. cloudflare, incapsula and amazon are offering free cdn but don’t know which one to choose. reply jen street says: sep 22, 2017 at 11:30 am yes i would be interested in the comparison between free cdn and max cdn. thanks reply erwin says: feb 11, 2017 at 10:01 am thanks for interesting post. if i understand it correctly cdn is useful for websites with international orientation, but not for websites with a national user base. i am located in the netherlands (small country), and my website is focusing on people in the netherlands. am i correct that cdn is not going to improve loading speed for my customers? reply valerie says: feb 8, 2017 at 11:28 am if a cdn is serving static content, why would one *also* need server-side and client-side caching? reply syams says: nov 22, 2016 at 10:59 am please, advice me about free cdn cloudflare. it is useful enough? or better not install it? reply kawsar says: oct 29, 2016 at 3:43 am if you expect to get 2/3 k user maximum per day you never need cdn. it do not improve any performance . just choose a good hosting and fast theme. reply swati says: sep 10, 2016 at 9:41 am thank’s for this article .it was easy to understand. i just wanna know how much does it cost .the basic price. i am from india. reply venkatweetz says: jun 19, 2016 at 9:16 am how to implement cdn for the website which have ssl certificate? reply weedney desmornes says: may 12, 2016 at 9:55 am i have a macbook air and i do not want to overload it with files and downloads because the macbook air is not designed for that. is there any way i can begin a website without overloading my computer? reply rb says: oct 8, 2016 at 12:31 pm yes there is, start at least with a proper webhoster, not your laptop and slow internet upload… reply ishaan mehta says: apr 7, 2016 at 9:48 am hey..i wanna use cloudflare.. but they require to changes nameservers..will it cause any problems to d original hosting if i point domain nameserver details to cloudflare, n not to hostgator? or it will just work out automatically..? i m using wordpress 4.4.2 btw..plz reply..i need ur help! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 7, 2016 at 8:14 pm if added correctly, these dns changes should not affect your hosting at all. reply krishnandu sarkar says: mar 17, 2016 at 6:57 am can i increase default cache time to 12 month in maxcdn? as the images, css, js that i have will never change. yes i may add more images as i add more posts. but existing ones will be same as usual forever. reply tiffanybaumgartn says: nov 30, 2015 at 5:40 pm thank you for useful recommendations and basically very good info reply shailaja says: aug 24, 2015 at 8:02 am i registered cloudflare cdn to my . but all static files are not hosting by cloudflare. why any cloudflare settings is require. reply fatt kay says: may 12, 2015 at 4:32 pm the cdn is too expensive though… reply fritz says: jul 10, 2015 at 3:43 pm fatt kay, cloudflare is free. to wpbeginner: “why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog” is not a question and should not have a question mark. “what the heck is a cdn” is a question and should have a question mark. nit-picky? maybe, but mistakes like this are jarring to some of us, and detract from the value of your content. reply brandon says: aug 21, 2015 at 7:33 am no it’s not. maxcdn starts at $9 / per month. reply germain says: apr 30, 2015 at 5:16 am so i think i going to singup with justhost.com and i saw that them had a global cdn my question is if anyone know if that service its automatically activated or not? reply natasha says: jan 6, 2015 at 12:49 am learn something new everyday. my head hurts but i’ll keep pressing forward. reply alex mega says: oct 22, 2014 at 2:14 am how much total bandwidth would you recommend to purchase? where could i find out how much bandwidth we go through on a regular basis. i mean traffic wise i’m sure it depends on location of users. so as a company that may see 100,000 page views/50k visitors or more a month is 100gb of bandwidth enough? reply lazy sapper says: oct 20, 2014 at 5:47 am i have been using cloudflare for cdn. but unfortunately, i don’t see decline in the consumption of cpu resources. reply syed balkhi says: oct 8, 2014 at 9:13 am just updated the article. to answer your question: no cdn does not replace a hosting account. it works with your hosting provider to balance the load and speed things up. you still need a web hosting provider. reply andy morris says: oct 7, 2014 at 1:52 pm still didn’t answer the most basic question. will i still need a host account if i get a maxcdn account or is it a type of hosting account? reply naval says: feb 10, 2014 at 1:58 pm what do you think about this cdn speed test tool at spooster.com? should i follow their recommendation if i choose to go for a free solution? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 10, 2014 at 10:43 pm we have not tried it so we can’t say. reply mark says: oct 27, 2013 at 2:20 pm i would recommend going with high quality hosting with your own static ip address and reliable hosting/page refresh rates before using cdn. it’s my understanding that google ranks sites based on their geographic targeting. google seems to be focused on providing the best rankings for the smaller businesses in their local markets. this also improves google’s advertising revenue by having many more sites competing for the same category advertising keywords. larger companies are able to have multiple websites in multiple geographical locations and can more easily globally dominate ranking categories. it’s not clear to me that cdn provides a valuable multiple geographical location presence? please comment on how cdn would improve say… your uk search engine ranking (uk visitor traffic) for example if your geographic target was the us? thanks. reply william v. says: oct 10, 2013 at 2:16 pm great overview on what a cdn is and how it works. i just wanted to add one note… cdns don’t only accelerate the delivery of static content, but also dynamic content (any content generated in real time by the origin server— e.g. applications) as well. dynamic content is not cachable, but cdns can speed up the request and returns from the server through a series of proxy servers/nodes strategically placed around the world… basically creating a more direct route for the data packets to travel through. traditional internet protocols require that data packets travel through more connecting points, which delays the arrival of data packets… making it slower to load on the client. cheers, reply tanveer says: oct 28, 2013 at 11:58 pm interesting. could you share some link that talks more about this? reply ryan williams says: jan 25, 2014 at 6:56 pm not sure this is right. i’ve conducted tests with every major cdn out there, and in all cases it’s significantly slower accessing uncacheable dynamic pages rather than just going to the origin server directly. however, it is true that dynamic pages can too benefit from a cdn. the key is to use a cdn that allows almost instant purging, so you have it cache everything and then your application can send a ‘purge’ request to the cdn when it knows an update has occurred (e.g. new post or comment). of course, this requires specific integration. reply sander says: aug 22, 2015 at 10:31 pm actually, if the majority of the page is loaded via cdn content, and the dynamic part of the page is loaded via ajax, a cdn could considerably increase the speed of a true dynamic page. obviously, after the page is loaded, a cdn would not help increase the speed of the next ajax load. but to an uninformed user, the feel of the website would be generally quicker with a cdn than without a cdn. reply pritush says: sep 30, 2013 at 12:34 am now wordpress offers free cdn with jetpack plugin.. how efficient is that compared to paid cdn like maxcdn ? reply wpbeginner support says: oct 1, 2013 at 1:17 am we will probably do a comparison in some article. however, we would still recommend maxcdn. installing jetpack in self-hosted wordpress requires you to connect your wordpress site to wordpress.com and many users don’t want to do that. also photon just serves images it calls itself image acceleration and editing service, not a cdn. reply hemant aggarwal says: aug 4, 2013 at 10:28 am your website was down because of hostgator’s server issue. does any cdn provides caching of web pages too? reply editorial staff says: aug 11, 2013 at 1:09 pm cloudflare seems to offer something along that line, but we haven’t tried it. reply alan says: jul 11, 2013 at 5:20 am hi, can you tell me if the servers all over the globe have static pages and you update a static page, how long does it take for the servers to update that page? can you force and update of static pages, and how do you do that? thanks reply forever long says: jun 18, 2013 at 7:34 am hello, i can see this blog entry is a few months old now, however i have just completed building a site on wix and its sole purpose is e-commerce hopefully on a global scale. problem is however we have noticed for a while that the website was sluggish during building and still is after going premium and adding more bandwidth. can maxcdn solve our problems? wix only ever gives out canned responses such as “you must compress images” and “please disable the auto rotate function from your slideshow” this is aggravating to say the least. this is the website in question would be really grateful for your thoughts and assistance i’ve spoke to maxcdn and they said they can help, however you never know whether its a sales pitch? reply editorial staff says: jun 21, 2013 at 2:38 pm yes they can help. reply jen street says: sep 22, 2017 at 11:50 am i have created a few sites using wix, including my own portfolio site. i offer it to clients who want a very simple site with few updates that is cheap. i plan on moving my own site to wordpress. after learning to create in wp, although with each theme it’s like having to relearn how that specific theme operates, i highly recommend wordpress and find it to be my preferred platform to develop websites from. reply david says: jun 15, 2013 at 2:30 pm just wondering, can your use two cdns at once, like maxcdn and cloudflare?, what are the consequences? is it feasible? reply editorial staff says: jun 16, 2013 at 9:07 am it is possible. however cloudflare requires you to change your dns to them which is something you may or may not want. reply raulnayak says: mar 7, 2012 at 3:01 am i am with maxcdn too and i am loving it..thanks for this wonderful post!! reply techzoomorg says: sep 20, 2011 at 10:30 am hi. i am using cloudflare & wp total cache. now, can we still get maxcdn working for the same site? will it make a significant difference? what would you differentiate & suggest for people using cloudflare for their wp sites. eager to explore more. thanks reply wpbeginner says: sep 20, 2011 at 12:56 pm @techzoomorg if you are using cloudflare then you don’t really need maxcdn. from our understanding it is an either / or solution. reply raulnayak says: mar 7, 2012 at 2:43 am @wpbeginner actually,cloudflare doesnt affect the website as much as maxcdn, i would recommend that you use both maxcdn as well as cloudflare and it will be very fast!! reply pr_luv says: sep 19, 2011 at 5:26 am so in relation to this, how is a vps used and applicable? great post! @pr_luv reply wpbeginner says: sep 8, 2011 at 10:32 am @kath.gamboa first of all the idea is that cdn service will not go down because they have so many datacenters across the globe. but lets imagine the worst and say that if it does go down, then all you have to do is go into your w3 total cache plugin, and turn off cdn for that time. all of your content will then be served directly from your server. remember, you never upload any content directly to the cdn servers. you always upload it to your web hosting server, and cdn simply mirrors it. reply kath.gamboa says: sep 8, 2011 at 3:04 am what happens when the cdn service goes down? does that mean that the website’s static content will be inaccessible as well? if yes, are there ways to revive the website when the cdn service goes down? reply peterapalais says: aug 27, 2011 at 4:12 am okay how does it work. i am with hostgaor. i want faster page loads etc. i personally live in australia. so there is is delay because of that huge big distance the information has to travel. okay for someone who lives next to the server in the usa, but not ideal for here in oz. 1. does maxcdn have a server here in australia? 2. what about amazon s3, do they have a server in australia? 3. does anyone? 4. does the cdn have copies off everything that is on my website. so like the html files as well? if so, maybe a work around for me would be to get a web host based here in australia. this will allow fast loading here, then use the cdn for the rest of the world. 5. so i guess, if i am browsing from the england, will it pull everything from the england server, and nothing from the hostgator server back in the us?? peter reply raulnayak says: mar 7, 2012 at 2:51 am @peterapalais i think yes,its der in sydney or its being planned.. see here, http://www.maxcdn.com/features/network/ .. i would recommend maxcdn because they charge on pay-as-you go basis i.e as $ 40 per 1tb of data… amazon is costly. it mirrors the whole website and creates cache or the websites so in the event that the server is down,the website doesnt go offline.. i personally use it for my http://www.allcancook.com reply astrogremlin says: jul 16, 2011 at 8:02 pm thanks for the reply! cdn may well be in my future. @wpbeginner reply wpbeginner says: jul 8, 2011 at 3:06 am @astrogremlin doesn’t matter how big the site is, cdns will help regardless. but if the small site is your personal site, then it is probably not worth you having the cdn. reply raulnayak says: mar 7, 2012 at 2:54 am @wpbeginner actually,the best part of maxcdn is that it doent matter how big or small your website is, it has a wonderful pay-as-you go plan where you have to renew only when you are done using the 1 tb you bought.. so if the 1 tb doesnt get used up even after 2 years, its fine,the plan will go on… reply astrogremlin says: jul 7, 2011 at 11:59 pm i notice that the rate one pays depends on volume (which seems very fair). but how can i tell how many gigs my blog is serving up? also, does cdn makes sense for a really low traffic site? on caching: i tried w3 but it was causing conflicts. i switched to supercache and haven’t looked back. reply archon810 says: may 30, 2011 at 1:08 am wp-supercache works great with maxcdn, that’s what i use. reply peter says: may 7, 2011 at 8:02 pm hi, i have a question, is there any alternative plugin to use with wordpress and maxcdn other than w3totalcache ? w3totalcache is causing some memory problems on my vps server ? reply jason h says: jun 13, 2013 at 4:57 pm wp-super cache is a bit simpler to use that w3 total cache and has a tab to configure origin-pull cdns. otherwise, you can use another plugin in conjunction for push cdns but i would recommend origin-pull be a requirement of the cdn you go with. reply bob says: may 3, 2011 at 10:00 am i on a bluehost shared server and was thinking about paying extra for a static ip address – would a static ip address increase my website speed? but now reading this i wonder if i should bypass the static ip address and just go for a cdn solution instead? i have done all the minifying, caching, etc, so did assume the next step was a static ip address. but perhaps it is really a cdn solution that i need? reply editorial staff says: may 3, 2011 at 6:22 pm go with the cdn solution. reply raulnayak says: mar 7, 2012 at 2:55 am a vps or a cloud server is always safer and faster than a shared server.. reply andrea barghigiani says: apr 27, 2011 at 8:05 am hi there! i am using cloudflare (https://www.cloudflare.com/) a cdn service that says will help me up speeding my website only by changing my dns. do you have any advice on how to set up w3 total cache to work with the cloudflare? what do you think about it? thanks for the answers! reply editorial staff says: apr 28, 2011 at 5:48 am no advice. cloudflare should have a tutorial for integration. reply raulnayak says: mar 7, 2012 at 2:56 am cloudflare automatically integrates itself as a cdn..you dont need to setup w3 total cache to work with cloudflare.. reply peter says: apr 23, 2011 at 7:28 am @editorial staff | well i setup this using: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-install-and-setup-w3-total-cache-for-beginners/ i don’t want to change w3totalcache becasue the implementation of cdn was very simple and it has many goodies inside. one plugin to rule them all. before that i use wp super cache. i am still confused what happaned to my vps but like i wrote my ideas are over. reply raulnayak says: mar 7, 2012 at 2:58 am @editorial actually wp super cache is better and setting it up is almost the same as w3 total cache.. reply rajesh says: apr 22, 2011 at 2:21 am i am using sub-domain as cdn. like cdn.namase.com and i am using w3 total cache. reply peter says: apr 21, 2011 at 5:01 pm hi, could please provide some more info about those two cases: improved user experience – since we started using a cdn, we have noticed a decline in bounce rate on our site. furthermore, we have also seen increased in pageviews and numbers of pages viewed by each user. so clearly a fast site means improved user experience. improvement in seo – google has clearly stated that faster sites tend to rank higher in search engines. we have noticed our site ranking higher once we did the optimization on our site. something more, like how your counce rate and pageviews changed ? seo in google, how fast can you see something changes, by traffic monitoring or how come ? tnx , i am happy cdn user from yesterday with your coupon as well. reply editorial staff says: apr 21, 2011 at 11:21 pm when we optimized our site for speed, the site went about 240% faster. we saw a huge decline in bounce rate as people were not just exiting on the first page. they were going to other pages as well which means increase in pageviews. clearly the user experience must have been improved by the faster site. because we did not change the placement of related links or anything. those were there before and after. in terms of google, it has been stated that the faster your site is, the more pages will get indexed per day. reply peter says: apr 22, 2011 at 5:54 am tnx for fast response to my comment. after implemnting cdn to my sites the onlu problem that i have is i cannot test how much faster it goes now. pingdom is not working now, yslow in firefox also stops to work. how you test your site if i may know. tnx reply peter says: apr 22, 2011 at 6:09 pm hi, ok, listen to my horror story. after implemnting some cdn to my couple of wordpress websites, what i mean implement, delete old cache systems on those sites and installed w3 total cache plugins. i setup evrything as it should be and go to sleep. now from this morning i have big problems with my vps server. don’t know what is going on but my cpu is from time to time (short period of time) goes like 100% , memory is bigger & bigger, swap is starting to work… tasks are going from normal about 60 to 100 or even more. anyway i am fighting with this one almost 10 hours without sucess. i reboot server, soft&hard and make many stuff but nothing seems to work. in past server was not doing nothing almost , now it is extreme busy. i think this is too much for me and i need to find wordpress+linux pro who will help me with that problem. cheers editorial staff says: apr 22, 2011 at 8:14 pm are you setting the right settings with w3 total cache?? gigi says: apr 22, 2011 at 8:44 pm delete w3totalcache and try w-supercache, i have deleted w3 and with wpsupercache my site is loading more fast. rich kent says: apr 17, 2011 at 9:40 pm hmm. still haven’t received an activation email. i did receive an email asking how i like the service – replied to that saying i’m still not setup, and haven’t heard anything back. i’m starting to think i made a mistake signing up with maxcdn. i’ve sent 2 more emails, and tried to text chat, but that timed out and i got a ‘send an email’ message. reply rich says: apr 20, 2011 at 5:25 pm just fyi – got in touch on monday and worked it out. i’m very happy with my sites performance now that i have it working. maxcdn = good! i should note that i’m not using this on my site (under my signature) – at least not yet – so don’t let that be the judge of speed. i’m using the cdn on other sites that actually get high volume. they could use a bit of work on cs, but maybe just caught them at a bad time. the network itself appears to be good enough that it’s worth it either way. reply tim says: apr 16, 2011 at 3:27 pm this is not something are new blogger would need to worry about for a while though right. even if someone does load it in england, if there is not much content does it matter? thanks, tj reply editorial staff says: apr 18, 2011 at 7:11 am no matter how big your site is, cdn will almost always speed up the site. however, keeping server load down is not something that new sites have to worry about, so in that aspect (you don’t need it). but in other aspects, cdn will help you. we never launch any site without utilizing cdn from day 1. reply gigi ✔ says: apr 16, 2011 at 12:34 pm hi, thanks for suggestion and for coupon, i have signed yesterday and i’m trying maxcdn+w3totalcache on my site. i have only a problem with w3totalcache, it doesn’t rewrite all url added in custom files list,so i get 87 for pagespeed and only 64(d) for yslow. reply editorial staff says: apr 18, 2011 at 7:22 am gigi, are you adding the urls in the custom-files the right way? we are doing a lot of images and files via that, and it works out great. let us know exactly what the issue is, perhaps paste a screenshot, and we would be able to help. reply « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.