evernote created with sketch. back to blog home sign up or log in asset 10 asset 11 log in created with sketch. back to blog home download app product asset 6 why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features asset 6 web clipper templates spaces integrations - microsoft teams - slack - salesforce community asset 6 our community certified consultants developers events forum support asset 6 help & learning troubleshooting blog company asset 6 about us careers contact us asset 15 facebook asset 14 twitter asset 18 linkedin asset 16 youtube asset 19 medium asset 17 instagram choose a language: english 繁體中文 english français deutsch 日本語 한국어 português español productivity • using evernote why journaling is good for your mental health david perez • july 19, 2019 when you were a teenager, maybe you kept a diary filled with your deepest thoughts, feelings, and fears. it’s easy to think of journaling as something that belongs to the past, but it doesn’t have to be that way. no matter your age, a journal is a safe space where you can express your thoughts and emotions, free from judgment or scrutiny. it can even help improve your mental health. the links between journaling and mental health if you struggle with anxiety, expressing yourself in writing can help you worry less about stressful tasks. keeping a journal allows you to express overwhelming emotions and observe your thought patterns, rather than simply reacting to them. according to the university of rochester medical center, the benefits of journaling include: giving you a way to track causes of stress or symptoms associated with mental illness. you can recognize repeating triggers and find ways to reduce their impact on you. helping you prioritize your problems, concerns, and fears. this can make it easier to figure out what is upsetting you most and focus your attention accordingly. providing a space for you to work through negative thoughts and behaviors. crucially, this is a place where you don’t have to worry about what others might think. if you’re new to journaling, the concept may seem daunting. here are three tips to help you get started today. choose a journaling method that works for you most importantly, pick what feels right. if the traditional pen-and-paper method gets your ideas flowing, then use it. there are however two main advantages to using a note-taking app like evernote. first, evernote allows you to write whenever you feel inspired because it’s always with you. it lives on your phone, computer, or any other device, making it easier to write in your journal on a regular basis. evernote can also help you gain more insights from your journal. rather than reading your journal entries chronologically or opening to a page at random, you can use search or tags to view your entries by keywords. this lets you see each time you mentioned a certain idea or feeling, which can help you identify patterns in your thoughts and experiences. follow two best practices write often, and write in your own style. setting aside enough time to write on a daily basis can help you keep better track of your emotional state and how it changes or develops over time. it might be tough to stick with writing every day at first, but you’ll find it gets easier the more you do it. also, your journal doesn’t need to abide by traditional rules, even when it comes to spelling and grammar. write whatever needs to come out—however it needs to come out. let your thoughts flow without evaluating them or worrying about how they’re written. you might find that taking liberties with language helps you articulate things that are otherwise hard to put into words. combine journaling with other healthy choices while journaling can provide benefits for your mental health, the university of rochester recommends you combine it with other aspects of a healthy lifestyle. in order to reduce your anxiety, stress, and any other mental health conditions, try to make time to relax or meditate every day. exercising regularly and eating a balanced diet will also contribute to your overall well-being. stay away from alcohol and drugs, and be sure you get enough sleep each night. a consistent journaling practice can reduce stress, boost your mood, and help you make better sense of your thoughts. take a few minutes each day to write down whatever comes into your head—you’ll be better able to understand your emotions in a safe, healthy way. share article asset 11 organize your work and unclutter your life with evernote. sign up for free more in productivity • using evernote productivity • using evernote the best office isn’t a building, it’s a space as remote work becomes the new normal, see how you can make 'work from home' work for you. productivity • using evernote making the most of working from home learn telecommuters’ secrets for working from home as you tackle it for the first time. productivity • using evernote the 4 ds of habit creation creating positive habits takes more than just willpower. see how habits are formed and how you can change your behavior to create the life you want. product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations - microsoft teams - slack - salesforce community our community certified consultants developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose blog language: english 繁體中文 english français deutsch 日本語 한국어 português español asset 15 facebook asset 14 twitter asset 19 medium asset 17 instagram asset 16 youtube asset 18 linkedin © 2019 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy