wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » why you should always use the latest version of wordpress why you should always use the latest version of wordpress last updated on august 6th, 2015 by editorial staff 598 shares share tweet share pin every time a new wordpress update comes out, we get several emails from users asking whether it’s safe to update their wordpress site. are you wondering whether you should update your wordpress to the latest version? want to know the pros and cons of updating wordpress? in this article, we will explain why it is crucial that you always use the latest version of wordpress as well as show you how to properly update wordpress. wordpress is free, and it is developed by a community of developers. with each new release, they fix bugs, add new features, improve performance, and enhance existing features to stay up to date with new industry standards. so in other words, when you do not update your wordpress site, you are risking your website security and missing out on new features / improvements. video tutorial subscribe to wpbeginner if you don’t like the video or need more instructions, then continue reading. let’s take a look at pros and cons of updating wordpress. 1. security security is arguably the most important reason why you should keep your wordpress website up to date. wordpress currently powers 23% of all websites in the world. due to it’s immense popularity, wordpress is a popular target for hackers, malicious code distributors, data thieves, and wanna be hackers. since wordpress is open source, anyone can study the source code to learn and improve it. however it also means that hackers can study it too and find ways to break into websites. now the good part is that not all hackers are bad. there are a lot more good hackers than bad ones which means that security experts around the world can study the code and properly report security bugs / fixes. every time a security vulnerability is reported, the core wordpress team works diligently to release an update that fixes the issue. this means that if you are not using the latest version of wordpress, then you are using software with known security vulnerabilities. hackers can search for websites running the older version, and you may become a victim of a sophisticated attack. not just wordpress itself, plugins can also be exploited by hackers. you need to make sure that all your wordpress plugins, themes, and the core itself is always up to date. 2. cool new features each major wordpress release comes with new features and changes to the software. for example, wordpress 4.0 came with improved plugin install experience, 4.1 introduced inline image editing, and 4.2 came with faster plugin updates. now if you were using an older version of wordpress, then your wordpress experience would be a lot different than someone using the latest version. you will have trouble finding wordpress help online because you are using an older version. users on wordpress support forums will assume that you are using the latest version of wordpress. 3. speed wordpress developers are always trying to make things faster. each new release comes with several performance improvements that makes wordpress run faster and more efficient. for example, wordpress 4.2 improved js performance for navigation menus, and wordpress 4.1 improved complex queries which helped with performance of sites using those queries. since speed is a huge factor in seo, you should definitely keep your wordpress updated to ensure maximum performance benefits. 4. bug fixes despite the rigorous testing of major wordpress releases, sometimes bugs may slip through the cracks. that’s why there are timely minor wordpress releases (the ones with x.x.x) to account for that. for example, the most recent wordpress 4.2.3 update fixed 20 bugs from the 4.2 release. now if you go to wordpress support forums asking for help, the first advice you will get is to update wordpress because that may fix the issue. if you insist on not updating wordpress, then you will be unable to receive help. 5. compatibility (or not) often plugin and theme developers coordinate their updates with major wordpress releases to ensure they’re taking advantage of newly available features and enhancements. however in some cases, an update can break your existing wordpress plugins if they weren’t following the best practices and coding standards. this is why it is crucial that you keep regular wordpress backups. to sum this up, the only downside is that in some rare cases your site will break. however the upside is that you have: improved wordpress security cool new wordpress features faster wordpress experience a bug free wordpress website better compatibility now that you know why it’s important to keep your wordpress site updated, let’s take a look at how to update wordpress. how to keep your wordpress site updated updating your wordpress core, plugins, and themes whenever there is a new update for them is fairly easy. wordpress comes with a built-in update notification system. it highlights the number of available updates when you log into your wordpress dashboard. all you need to do is visit dashboard » updates page and install those updates. this is a one-click process. however since many website owners do not login to their wordpress dashboard daily, they may not even know that there is an update available for days. thankfully, you have a few options. if you’re using wordpress 3.7 or above, then automatic updates are turned on for minor releases (which are reserved for security and bugfixes). you can turn on automatic updates for major releases, plugins as well as themes. alternatively, you can get email notifications when there is a new update for your wordpress site. get email notifications for updates in wordpress when you’re busy running your business, logging into your site to check for updates is usually the last thing on your mind. wouldn’t it be easier if you could get an email notification whenever there is an update on your wordpress sites? well that’s possible. first thing you need to do is install and activate the wp updates notifier plugin. upon activation, visit settings » updates notifier to configure the plugin settings. this plugin uses wordpress cron to check your site for updates every hour. you can change that to once or twice daily. when there is a new update available, this plugin will send you an email notification. by default it checks for wordpress core update, plugin updates, and theme updates. all you need to do is click on save settings with test email button. if you do not recieve the test email from the plugin, then check out our guide on how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. auto install wordpress updates you can automate the process even further. wordpress allows you to enable automatic updates for major releases, plugins, and themes. this option is risky if you’re not using managed wordpress hosting. managed wordpress hosting companies automatically update your site to major wordpress versions and keep an eye out if something breaks. if you turn on automatic updates, then there is a slight risk that your site may break and you won’t be online to fix it right away. having that said, if you like to enable automatic updates, then there are two ways to do it (plugin method and code method). let’s take a look at the plugin method first. first you need to install and activate the easy updates manager plugin. upon activation, you need to visit dashboard » update options page to configure the plugin. now you need to scroll down to automatic updates section where you can enable automatic updates for core, plugins, themes, and translation files. once you are done, simply save your settings. enable auto updates using wp-config file you can enable automatic updates for wordpress core by simply adding this line to your wp-config.php file. 
define('wp_auto_update_core', true);
 if you also want to automatically update your themes and plugins, then you would need to add this to your theme’s functions.php file or a site specific plugin. 
add_filter( 'auto_update_plugin', '__return_true' );
add_filter( 'auto_update_theme', '__return_true' );
 we hope this article helped you learn why you should always use the latest version of wordpress. you may also want to check out our expert pick of 20 must have wordpress plugins for 2015. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 598 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to start your own podcast (step by step) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 7 commentsleave a reply jess says: nov 18, 2017 at 7:40 am hi great article and great points, thanks! only thing is a lot of the suggestions to update are not showing on my word press at all in any of the places…. i see no options at all but my client says that they are getting options to up date via email. … eish reply sarged says: jun 13, 2016 at 9:49 am please excuse me. i have updated my version 4.1.11 to the latest 4.5.2 and compared page load times with query monitor. 4.5.2 generates pages 30% slower and also runs a couple more queries. the morale – never upgrade unless if really necessary. fortunately, this was one of my test websites, not the production website. if anyone tried testing cross-version performance please also share your findings. reply bob saget says: jan 26, 2016 at 3:01 pm but how is wordpress written so horribly that there always seems to be some new security update? it’s a joke written by clowns which you have to tack on poorly optimized and non-standardized plugins which will appear wherever the hell they want in your back-end admin panel, often hidden behind a maze of menus. reply clementina says: jan 22, 2016 at 5:53 am hi! i am going to update our wordpress site but i have a few questions. 1. i don’t have wordpress installed in my pc, our webdeveloper was the one who built the website and told me it is not necessary for me to install wordpress on my pc. is it really not necessary? 2. if wordpress is not installed in my pc and i only access the website online through wp dashboard, can i update it there? hope you can help me because i am currently trying to install a new premium theme and the theme support thought that i need to update the wordpress version first. thanks in advance! reply rupom khondaker says: jul 29, 2015 at 4:08 pm i just love wpbeginner and its awesome post. i learn many important tutorial about wordpress. i really appreciate it. thanks for the awesome post. reply barry williams says: jul 27, 2015 at 9:17 pm hello and thanks for this article; i have had problems with wp updating automatically and want to update manually when a new version is released. please advise how i can turn off automatic updating? thanks reply ryan ayres says: jul 27, 2015 at 4:33 pm this is a great and straightforward write-up. i appreciate it, i’ll be sending our skeptical customers to this to review the benefits and risks they can avoid by keeping up with their wordpress version. great stuff! ryan reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.