english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get hubspot free home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in marketing sales service website subscribe subscribe to our blog stay up to date with the latest marketing, sales, and service tips and news. subscribe via email subscribe on slack subscribe via email marketing sales service website email address we're committed to your privacy. hubspot uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products, and services. you may unsubscribe from these communications at any time. for more information, check out our privacy policy. back to other options thank you! you have been subscribed. get hubspot free marketing | 4 min read why crm and marketing automation need each other written by rebecca white @rebecca_white94 when i was younger and i listened to hannah montana sing "the best of both worlds," i didn't fully understand what she meant. now, as a marketer, i get it. having the best of both worlds is the feeling you have when your company's marketing automation software and crm work in tandem. but it's not just about how much easier it makes your job. when the two software work together, your company will convert more mqls to sqls and make more sales. in fact, marketing automation software can increase sales productivity by 14.5%. that's why marketing and sales teams need to integrate their software and work together. below, we'll review what marketing automation and crm software do and why they need to be integrated. crm and marketing automation before we dive into why marketing automation and crm need each other, let's discuss what each software does. to start, marketing automation software helps marketers automate some of their processes such as sending email campaigns or posting social media posts. marketing teams use automation software to produce and promote content. additionally, this software includes reports and analytics for when leads visit your website, open an email, fill out a form, or read a blog. ultimately, the goal is to streamline the process of taking a lead, nurturing them, and moving them to a sales qualified lead. essentially, it's all about lead generation and personalization. if your team needs more marketing qualified leads, a way to distribute content, or has a large email list, it's time to invest in marketing automation software. some of the best marketing automation software includes hubspot, mailchimp, and marketo. on the other hand, a crm is a software that helps sales teams manage their pipeline and lead qualification processes. a crm will track customer data, including dates and notes of phone conversations, past purchase records, and emails. essentially, with this software, your salesperson can see the full picture of who a prospect is and their history with your company. ultimately, a crm helps sales reps take prospects from sales qualified leads to customers. if your salespeople lose track of prospects, forget to follow up, or you've outgrown your lead tracking system, it's time to look into crm. a few of the best crm platforms are hubspot, zoho, and salesforce. hubspot is one of the best choices because the hubspot marketing hub includes the foundational crm functionalities, so you have both software in one. however, for the optimal experience, you should use both the hubspot marketing hub and advanced sales hub so you have more sophisticated features in the marketing automation and crm. now that we've discussed what each software does and how they can help your team, you might be wondering, "why do these need to work together?" well, when marketing automation and crm software work together, they provide a seamless journey for your customers as they go from visitor to mql to sql to customer. additionally, integrating the two software will give your sales reps the full picture of a prospect's interaction with your company. your sales rep will know the marketing history of their prospects. plus, when marketing automation and crm are integrated or in one software, your marketing and sales team can provide consistent messaging. let's go through a tangible example of how the two software can work together. to start, let's say a marketer attracts a lead through a blog post, much like this one. perhaps that lead decides to download a lead magnet and fill out a form. once that happens, the marketing team starts nurturing the lead through an email marketing campaign. after taking enough action, that lead becomes a marketing qualified lead. after a while, let's say they request a demo and are officially a sales qualified lead. once this happens, the sales rep who's responsible for the demo goes to the marketing automation and crm software to gather information on their interactions with the company. they find out what offers the prospect has downloaded, what blogs they've read, who they are, and what company they work for. this information informs the reps strategy for the demo call, so they're prepared to answer the right questions and personalize the sales call. if the marketing automation and crm weren't connected, your sales rep wouldn't be able to find that information easily. perhaps they even ask the prospect during the demo call, which irritates the prospect because they've already given your company that information and they're repeating themselves. that's why the two need each other. while you might have a system or process in place for lead tracking, it's probably a manual process that comes with human error and prospects slipping through the cracks. you can't scale a system like that. your marketing automation and crm should be connected so your sales team has the right tools to close a deal. additionally, by integrating marketing automation and crm software, your marketing and sales teams can work together. for example, your marketing team might leave notes for your sales reps in a contact record about a previous interaction. or maybe your sales reps help your marketing team determine which content leads find the most helpful. integrating these systems should help you understand the gaps and friction points in your marketing and sales process. it can help you discover why leads aren't moving from mql to sql or why prospects aren't closing. ultimately, by integrating your crm and marketing automation software, your team can: generate more qualified leads offer better visibility to marketing and sales teams shorten the sales process provide consistent messaging unify your data management improve the customer relationship enhance pipeline management develop cross-department relationships overall, integrating your crm and marketing automation will make your marketing team, sales team, and customers happier, by streamlining the marketing and sales process. originally published mar 27, 2020 4:00:00 am, updated march 27 2020 topics: marketing automation don't forget to share this post! related articles 15 email workflows you should be using in your marketing automation marketing | 9 min read what is permission marketing & how does it work? marketing | 5 min read is it time for marketing automation or marketing transformation? this post contains older information, but has been left up for historical reasons. for more up-to-date information, please see our lead generation hub . from vendors jumping into the mix like kids at a wave pool to prospects trying to figur... marketing | 4 min read download for later increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2020 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy