wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » wpbeginner’s blueprint » maxcdn maxcdn maxcdn is one of the largest content delivery network provider. they accelerate your site and decrease the server load. we started using maxcdn in 2010. the main reason behind our decision was site performance and seo. after the google panda update, everyone knows that site load time plays a crucial role in your search engine ranking positions (serps). they help accelerate popular sites including the next web, disqus, stackoverflow, buysellads and others. over the past five years, we have had great experience using maxcdn. we use it on all of our websites. our founder, syed balkhi have come to know the folks behind the company on a personal basis. they are great folks who value their customer service to the highest extent. all of our users who have signed up with maxcdn have only given us positive remarks. if we had to rate them, we would give them a perfect 5 out of 5 star rating. for those who are wondering this article will explain: what is a cdn, and why you need it? or simply click on the image below to view the infographic: another big reason to use maxcdn is that it integrates with wordpress fairly easily. we have written an article on how to install maxcdn in wordpress. on the sites we have worked with, we have noticed that it can speed up your site performance by upto 350%. no matter how big your blog is, you can always benefit from it. for those who just want a simple bullet point list, here is why we use it: speed – once we started using a cdn on our site, the site got faster. crash resistance – thanks to you guys for sharing our articles, we have received huge spells of traffic from social media on some of our articles. if it wasn’t for the proper cdn and caching setup, then our site would crash so many times. cdn allows us to distribute the load to multiple servers instead of having 100% traffic to our main server thus making it less likely to crash. improved user experience – since we started using a cdn, we have noticed a decline in bounce rate on our site. furthermore, we have also seen increased in pageviews and numbers of pages viewed by each user. so clearly a fast site means improved user experience. improvement in seo – google has clearly stated that faster sites tend to rank higher in search engines. we have noticed our site ranking higher once we did the optimization on our site. we are using maxcdn on our site and you should too. exclusively for wpbeginner users, they offer 25% off maxcdn coupon code: wpbeginner over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.