wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » wpbeginner’s blueprint » mailchimp mailchimp if you’ve read an article on monetizing your blog, then you probably understand the importance of email marketing. there is a famous saying in blogging, “money is in the list”. if you notice to your right, you will see an email subscription option. we use email newsletters to keep our users updated. we also give them an option to choose from their interests. for example, you can choose to receive wpbeginner daily feed via email. you can choose to receive emails about new books, new coupons, freebies, and blogging tips. in order to do this successfully and efficiently, we utilize an email marketing service mailchimp. you are probably wondering why don’t we just use create a free email newsletter using wordpress like our article suggested. the main reason is because that method is unreliable. it does not have the functions or capabilities that services like mailchimp or aweber can offer. often new bloggers make the mistake of using feedburner or a plugin to handle their opt-in and newsletters. you are making a mistake. yes, you can use a plugin or feedbuer to send out email newsletters from within wordpress, but it is not the most effective way. as your list gets larger, you will run into spam issues, low deliverability rate, and much more. experiments have shown that when you do not use a third-party service like mailchimp or aweber, you will see a lower deliverability rate. meaning your message will automatically go to the spam box rather than going into the inbox. the downside of using a third party service is recurring cost. you will find yourself paying every month for using their service. however, no matter who you ask, they will tell you that it is well-worth the cost. often we notice that new bloggers make the decision to use a free wordpress plugin to collect emails with the decision to later move to a service like mailchimp or aweber. you need to consider double-optin. most email marketing services do not let you import your list without requiring a double-optin. meaning all of your subscribers will have to confirm that they subscribed to your list. you will see a huge drop in the numbers. we have written a pretty thorough article about what, whys, and how-to’s of email newsletter for your wordpress blog. this article will give you a full email newsletter 101. it will show you what is a newsletter, why you need it, which service is the best, how to build a list, how add it into wordpress, how to add opt-in box in your theme’s sidebar, how to add a lightbox popup for opt-in, and other lead generation techniques. our founder, syed balkhi gives mailchimp a 5 out of 5 star rating. the main reason for that is because mailchimp has a great user-interface. it lets us send emails, manage subscribers, offer superb tracking, setup autoresponders, create beautiful email templates, target subscribers, and split test our campaigns. mailchimp does have a free option with certain limitations (upto 2000 subscribers and 12,000 emails / month). signup for free. again don’t forget to read our email marketing 101 guide. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.