home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library holidays latest articles product reviews travel prevnext why we decided to use an airport car parking service during our holiday leyla preston thu 21st sep 2017 10shares share tweet pin last summer, we travelled to north cyprus for my brother’s wedding, but we had no idea how we were going to get to the airport as we were travelling during work/school days and no one was around to drop us off and pick us up. we pondered over taking a cab, which would have cost us £70 each way, but we felt that £70 was just too expensive, so we decided to follow the airport car parking option, which we’ve never tried before. not having any idea where to start looking for quotes, we turned to our friend ‘google’, which fired up hundreds of thousands of results from various sources, offering competitive prices. after scouring all the reviews and every single website in the search engine, we settled for a website called skyparksecure which offers a service that compares prices and reviews from over 300 uk airport parking services and with a 96% review rating. image taken from skyparksecure’s website on the homepage, we selected our airport, which was heathrow, the date and time we would need to drop and pick up the car, and then we hit ‘search prices’. we found a quote for £58.78 and we were massively impressed with the large discount, especially as this amount covered both drop off and pick up – taking a cab one-way was almost £20 more expensive! the booking process was very simple, we inputted our car registration details, the dates and times we wanted to drop off and pick up the car and our flight details. we paid straight away online via paypal and received a booking confirmation email immediately from heathrow happydays meet & greet, which listed out all our information and a detailed description of where to go and what time to get to the car park on the day of drop off and pick up, so that there was no confusion with instructions. dropping off our car on the day, we followed our booking confirmation instructions and headed over to heathrow terminal 5. the confirmation email is extensive and includes detailed instructions for each terminal in heathrow. for terminal 5 instructions, we followed the signs to the short stay car park and level 4. we took our ticket from the barrier and made our way to zones r to s, as stated in the email. we were advised to call the driver about 15 – 20 minutes before we arrived at the terminal to ensure that he was ready to pick up and park the car for the duration of our 5-day trip. so, the driver, who was wearing a black jacket as stated in the email, was waiting for us already by the ticket pay machine. we parked our car in one of the designated bay areas signposted as “off airport meet & greet” and left the keys with the driver, as we signed a few forms and headed over to the entrance to terminal 5, which was just by the car. this car parking area is ideal for families, as there is very minimal waiting time and distance between dropping the car and heading to security, especially if you’ve checked in beforehand. so, i was very impressed with how quick the entire process was – about 20 minutes from handing the keys to getting over to security. picking up our car after a fantastic wedding and a brilliant holiday, we were ready to head back to our car, which was already waiting for us at the same car parking bay. we checked around for any scuffs and marks on the car and couldn’t find anything at all, so the car had been kept very well during the 5 days. after waiting just a few minutes for the keys, we were ready to head back home. there were no delays and the drivers were approachable and easy to communicate with. overall, we would consider using the same airport car parking service again. we found the entire process to be very simple to book online and easy to follow via the booking confirmation instructions. if you look carefully online and use skyparksecure’s website to browse reviews and prices, you will find the right airport car parking service for you at generally much cheaper rates than a one-way cab fare. and the process is ideal for families because you don’t have to worry about public transport, dodgy cabs, and reliance on family or friends to drop you off and pick you up. just park your car at the airport and then pick it back up in the same place when you’re back from your holiday. for more information on how to book via skyparksecure, please visit their website here. for heathrow-specific car park services, you can visit here. *featured image taken from heathrow.com* *review in collaboration with skyparksecure* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:airport parkingairport servicehappy meet & greetheathrowholidayskyparksecuresummer related posts 9 reasons why you should visit the antar... how to make annual travel insurance more... blackberry, strawberry and dark chocolat... july summer 2017 degustabox review 5 reasons to take the kids to mauritius ... top 6 things to do with the kids this ha... brantano clarks ballerina shoes – ... 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... so you think you know the uk? share it a... 7 reasons why you should take the family... 10 reasons why you should rent an rv thi... get out and about this summer with muddy... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sici... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sard... ways you can save money on flight ticket... how to make the most of the blackberry s... how to enjoy a proper sit-down family me... win £250 just by sharing your favourite ... fun things to do with the kids over wint... the best holiday destinations for new pa... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... summer berries crunch cake recipe protect your children’s eyes this summer... blackberry pie recipe almond and blackberry biscuit squares re... 6 reasons why you should take your baby ... top five tips for spreading the cost of ... ghostly cork top 3 great things i want to do with the... 21 travel hacks you need to know this su... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 10shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok