worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend wida and access testing what you need to know by erikagreen 11,266 views many teachers, especially those new to wida and/or esl teaching, are often overwhelmed and intimidated by the wida standards and access testing. in this article, we attempt to break down the main components in order to provide a conscise overview of wida and access. throughout the article, you'll find links to helpful resources and more in-depth explanations. make sure to give them a look! what is wida? wida, or the world-class instructional design and assessment, is a consortium of states in the u.s. that are dedicated to the design, and implementation of standards, and opportunities for english language learners. wida is used by 40 states in the u.s., as well as over 400 international schools throughout the world. access testing one of the largest features of wida is the access test. these tests measure students’ academic english language in four domains: listening, speaking, reading, and writing. of these assessments, the test content aligns with the five wida english language development (eld) standards, which are: 1 social and instructional language - how students interact with teachers and classmates to build working relationships that support learning 2 language of language arts - language specific to language arts 3 language of mathematics - language specific to mathematics 4 language of science - language specific to science 5 language of social studies - language specific to social studies students’ access scores reflect their proficiency from level 1 to level 6. teachers will use these scores to help make sure that students are getting the proper assistance they need in order to succeed at school. can do descriptors can do descriptors are used so that the focus is on what a student can do, not what a student can’t do. for example, a level 1 entering 9th through 12th grade can match visual representations to words/phrases. in contrast, a level 5 bridging 9th through 12th grader can interpret grade-level literature and synthesize grade-level expository text. for more information on grade-specific can do descriptors, visit wida’s can do descriptor store. how can i help my students prepare? wida recommends that you start preparing about two weeks before your students test: discuss with your students the kind of content they’ll encounter on the test. let them practice the different types of questions they’ll see as well. allow students to practice with the test demo platform so that they are comfortable by testing day, especially with the speaking portion. 1 this access for ells online documents has some excellent tips and domain-specific information 2 wida’s demo test can be played on a smart board or projector 3 these sample items with suggested scripts will help your students practice answering questions. you can even modify the scripting to fit your needs! 4 lastly, wida’s practice test will make sure your students know what to expect before the big day! p.s. if you enjoyed this article, please help spread it by clicking one of those sharing buttons below. and if you are interested in more, you should follow our facebook page where we share more about creative, non-boring ways to teach english. get the entire busyteacher library: dramatically improve the way you teach save hours of lesson preparation time with the entire busyteacher library. includes the best of busyteacher: all 80 of our pdf e-books. that's 4,036 pages filled with thousands of practical activities and tips that you can start using today. 30-day money back guarantee. learn more popular articles like this how to create all-purpose communicative assessments for esl students 0 37,771 0 classroom management and discipline 6 strategies for assessment in the esl classroom what type of tester are you? 0 34,501 0 classroom management and discipline cbest, toefl, gre tutoring esl students for specific academic/professional tests 0 8,952 0 teaching ideas share and share alike how to class share to get students ready for mainstreaming 0 5,717 0 teaching ideas ncte.org busyteacher's detailed review 0 7,123 0 teaching ideas 4 ways to get esl learners to speak english outside the classroom 0 27,646 0 classroom management and discipline busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...