you are the owner of this article. edit article add new article sign up log in dashboard logout my account dashboard profile saved items logout home contact us subscribe customer service how to submit tips our history reprints search archives podcast polls school closings privacy policy classifieds news politics energy and environment legal affairs education kanawha valley southern west virginia health phil kabler's statehouse beat rick steelhammer special reports flipside innerviews business opinion columnists editorial editorial cartoon endorsements letters to the editor op-ed commentaries readers' vent sports prep sports columnists wvu gameday marshall university west virginia power mec sports national sports life columns dear abby fashion food & dining the food guy the food guy gardening one month at a time on the town people religion travel a & e books stage screen reviews music events outdoor pursuits hunting & fishing john mccoy recreation woods and water multimedia blogs obituaries obituary archives funerals daily mail wv metro kanawha classifieds public notices jobs contests e-edition real estate cars tv weekly newsletters sign up log in dashboard logout my account dashboard profile saved items logout customer service subscribe contact us e-edition newsletters cars jobs real estate public notices classifieds tv weekly contests par mar college basketball shoot out football challenge facebook twitter linkedin youtube 73° mostly cloudy charleston, wv (25301) today overcast. a stray shower or thunderstorm is possible. low 64f. winds se at 5 to 10 mph.. tonight overcast. a stray shower or thunderstorm is possible. low 64f. winds se at 5 to 10 mph. updated: march 27, 2020 @ 6:55 pm full forecast toggle navigation search classifieds public notices jobs contests e-edition real estate cars tv weekly newsletters home contact us subscribe customer service how to submit tips our history reprints search archives podcast polls school closings privacy policy classifieds news politics legislature 2020 energy and environment legal affairs public records education kanawha valley southern west virginia health phil kabler's statehouse beat rick steelhammer special reports flipside innerviews business opinion columnists editorial editorial cartoon endorsements letters to the editor op-ed commentaries readers' vent sports prep sports columnists wvu gameday marshall university west virginia power mec sports national sports life columns dear abby fashion food & dining the food guy the food guy gardening one month at a time on the town people religion travel a & e books stage screen reviews music events outdoor pursuits hunting & fishing john mccoy recreation woods and water multimedia blogs obituaries obituary archives funerals daily mail wv metro kanawha home coronavirus coronavirus close this 6-foot-square, 2-foot-deep stainless steel box at the entrance to charleston’s patrick street pump station is completely covered with wipes flushed into charleston sanitary board sewer lines. charleston sanitary board | courtesy photo facebook twitter whatsapp sms email print save top story widespread flushing of toilet paper 'alternatives' raises fears of a sewer-nami by rick steelhammer staff writer rick steelhammer kanawha county government reporter author email mar 26, 2020 23 hrs ago facebook twitter whatsapp sms email stay informed and up-to-date. essential reporting in volatile times. all access digital limited time offer - $0 for the first month, $5.99 per month ez pay learn more about hd media learn more about hd media this 6-foot-square, 2-foot-deep stainless steel box at the entrance to charleston’s patrick street pump station is completely covered with wipes flushed into charleston sanitary board sewer lines. charleston sanitary board | courtesy photo facebook twitter whatsapp sms email print save an unintended consequence of toilet paper hoarding during the covid-19 era has area wastewater treatment plant workers bracing for possible blockages and overflows. because of early runs and now scarcity of the paper product, some have resorted to problematic alternatives. paper towels, facial tissues — even scraps of clothing — are being flushed into sewer systems designed to accommodate quick-disintegrating toilet paper. add those items to the increased volume of disinfectant cleaning sheets for sinks, counters and hands, and so-called “flushable” moistened wipes for babies and adults who are either sensitive or lack toilet paper, and the ingredients for epic clogs and blowouts are at hand. “for the last 10 years, we’ve seen more and more of what i call ‘convenience wipes’ entering the system,” said tim haapala, operations manager for the charleston sanitary board. “they were causing problems long before we heard of the coronavirus. they don’t disintegrate like toilet paper, which is designed to quickly degrade, so we have to spend a lot of time pulling the wipes out of pumps and off screens and hauling them to the landfill.” “it says on the baby wipe packages that the wipes are flushable,” said earl bunks, manager of the union public service district in cross lanes. “they’re really not. some of the low-flow toilets in use now can’t handle them, and the wipes that make it into the system can’t make it through the treatment plants. you don’t see toilet paper at the plant. it’s already dissolved by then.” “convenience wipes should be disposed of properly in the trash and never flushed down toilets,” haapala said. “the wipes clog the pumps at our pumping stations. plugged pumps do not convey waste water. they have to be removed from service and the wipes manually removed before they can return to service. this costs the charleston sanitary board time and money.” as the covid-19 crisis continues, “i expect to see more wipes, particularly the disinfectant variety, flushed into the sewer system,” haapala said. while that likelihood poses additional headaches for csb workers, homeowners are even more at risk than the city of having their pipes damaged by buildups of the non-biodegradable products. instead of the 8-inch pipes used by the csb, most customers connect to the city system with 4-inch clay pipes extending from their homes, often accommodating buildups of wipes, grease and solid causing backups into homes that are the responsibility of homeowners to repair. “during this already stressful time, we want to help our customers avoid blockages that could create costly plumbing emergencies,” said john pentasuglia, senior operations manager for west virginia american water, which operates wastewater treatment plants at winona and fayetteville in fayette county. homeowner sewer line blockages can cause wipes, grease and other materials to spill onto the ground or into the home. blockages in city sewer lines can cause sewer overflows in homes and businesses, and create overflow situations in which wastewater spills into streams, causing environmental issues, pentasuglia said. reach rick steelhammer at rsteelhammer@wvgazettemail.com, 304-348-5169 or follow @rsteelhammer on twitter. facebook twitter whatsapp sms email print save rick steelhammer kanawha county government reporter author email follow rick steelhammer close get email notifications on {{subject}} daily! your notification has been saved. there was a problem saving your notification. {{description}} email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items. save manage followed notifications close followed notifications please log in to use this feature log in don't have an account? sign up today trending now articles articles widespread flushing of toilet paper 'alternatives' raises fears of a sewer-nami number of state personnel regulations suspended during coronavirus emergency justice signs bills on bible classes, reducing college oversight, disciplining educators, requiring aeds, studying student discipline and enacting 'tim tebow' hard times for hardwoods fourth judicial annex worker tests positive for covid-19 dear abby: parents still in the dark about sibling's sexual abuse video requirements for medicare patients puts rural, elderly population at risk, health officials say kanawha covid-19 cases double, one in assisted living home gat creek finds niche in the hardwood furniture industry commerce secretary: west virginia unemployment claims explode past 40,000 sections home news sports business opinion arts & entertainment life obituaries online_features outdoor pursuits multimedia services customer service classifieds public notices place an ad calendar email alerts reprints search weather wvgazettemail.com 1001 virginia st. east charleston, wv 25301 phone: 304-348-5140 email: support@wvgazettemail.com facebook twitter linkedin youtube support local journalism. subscribe today! © copyright 2020 charleston gazette-mail, 1001 virginia st. east charleston, wv | terms of use | privacy policy powered by blox content management system from townnews.com.