call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact will writing services while thinking, talking and planning for death may feel uncomfortable, you need to consider how much worse the situation would be if you died or became incapacitated without having a will in place. don’t leave a financial nightmare for those you love – ensure you’ve an up-to-date will. making a will is the most important preparation any of us can make, even if you’re in perfect health. i can help you with writing a will but also: how to plan for the costs of your funeral planning for any money tied up in investments after you die how to minimise your inheritance tax bill how you can set up a trust for your heirs if you would like to discuss will writing, life insurance or financial planning please contact me. your name (required) your email (required) subject your message call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.