skip to content search toggle menu wine blog #7wordwinereview reviews wine racks wine coolers wine aerator what makes the lidl gin so darned popular 10 most popular champagne brands internationally – most are delicious a review of jay z’s ace of spades champagne best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktails at home best whiskey glasses 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best red wine glasses of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best rhubarb gin: brands that will turn even rhubarb haters best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it? 5 best toffee vodka brands that makes you very kissable | 2020 champagne gin non-alcoholic wine vodka close menu home > wine blog will the real 12×75 please stand up, please stand up published date 1st october 2014 last modified date 17th march 2020 categories wine blog author vim 25shares sharetweet dear all, my apologies. it’s been a tough summer, filled with family obligations. updating this blog has always been on my mind, yet everytime i sat down to write something, i just couldn’t find the words. i drank so little wine this summer that it seemed almost hypocritical to update my own wine blog. without my liquid inspiration i resigned myself to the fact that perhaps saying nothing was better than saying something ‘half-assed.’ we’ve recently had a new writer join the 12×75 team, anna scott. her writing is excellent, and hopefully, like us, you’ll find her pieces both witty and informative. geordie clarke, a dear friend and the contributing editor to this blog is very much penning his latest thoughts and articles and in typical fashion both him and i will be populating this site with some fun and cool blogs. i will of course be asking the lovely zelda for more of her quirky #wineart to publish, and it won’t be long before we restart the #7wordwinereview dinners again in london. the #7wordwinereview dinners happened consistently for 24 months, and after a summer off i am excited to resume those and will be releasing the details for the dinner very very soon. on a personal note, a few months ago, it was brought to my attention that a new wine brokerage house had been setup, called twelve-by-seventy-five ltd !!! i was compeltely shocked – owning every domain from 12×75.com to 12by75.com to 6×75.com – i thought their own research would have told them that perhaps chosing a different name would have been wise. i tried writing to them, however each email address they gave me, the emails kept bouncing – *alarm bells* a short exchange on twitter, and i realised that there was no way they were going to change their name. they’ve even very logically partenered up with a super car rental business ?!?! #wtf whilst i have nothing against the owners of the new company (other than the fact they’re as creative as a block of wood) – it has clearly been an attempt to piggy back a brand that i’ve spent 3 years building. we have nothing to do with that company, be it directly or indirectly, no interests, no percentage points, no vested interest, nada!!! to read about the latest adventures of this new wine company, please have a look at jim budd’s site – http://investdrinks-blog.blogspot.com/2014/08/twelve-by-seventy-five-ltd-not-for-me.html and be sure to read all the comments. i think jim said it best ‘thanks but to the best of my knowledge there is no connection between www.12×75.com and twelve-by-seventy-five. it is possible, of course, that those who set up twelve-by-seventy-five were attracted by having ‘virtually the same name brand name’ as a successful wine blog. ain’t that the truth regards vim vimal@12×75.com 25shares sharetweet related posts wine blog cru bourgeois more like i haven’t a clue bourgeois reviews / wine blog a review of freixenet prosecco champagne / wine blog a review of jay z’s ace of spades champagne prev post waitrose vs tesco – the online wine test next post the things we do to avoid the wine snob label about 12×75.com 12×75 is a light hearted, comical wine blog which focuses on wine news, reviews, food & interviews with leading figures in the world of wine. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. articles about twelve by seventy five ltd (who have nothing to do with 12×75.com) will the real 12×75 please stand up, please stand up investment firm twelve by seventy five is not 12×75 recent posts best non alcoholic gin 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews most shared posts best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it?... being a native californian but living in nyc, i think i&# 28 shares best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktai... cocktail shakers are used for a variety of reasons in a v 35 shares the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s gu... what is it about opening wine that can sometimes be so an 33 shares interviews stephen browett – farr vintners doug rumsam – bordeaux index mark schuringa – ditton wine traders adon kumar – wine searcher judy leissner – grace vineyard peter lunzer – lunzer investments james miles – liv ex mark bedini – fine+rare david elghanayan – vanquish benjamin wallace – the billionaire’s vinegar paula & stacey golding – premier cru fine wine investments henri lurton – chateau brane-cantenac nigel jagger – octavian simon berry – berry bros. & rudd aline baly – chateau coutet adam brett-smith – corney & barrow maximilian riedel – riedel tony laithwaite – laithwaite’s wine pages about us contact us subscribe #7wordwinereview power… sitemap for great london seo services click away. ©2020 back to top search search close