search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. the good place, this is us, will & grace, blindspot and more land nbc premiere dates the network has released their fall autumn schedule. by joe anderton 19/06/2018 nbc universal september is a great month, isn't it? the kids go back to school and get out of your hair, and all the good tv shows come back too. nbc has revealed the premiere dates for the new seasons of its biggest shows, along with a few new ones. let's do this in order of dates, otherwise things just get messy. ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty image monday, september 24 sees the return of the voice along with the debut of a new thriller called manifest. tuesday, september 25 is when this is us returns (along with a new called new amsterdam) while wednesday, september 26 is all about chicago med, fire and pd. the good place is back for its highly-anticipated third season (which we're really hoping is as good as the first) on thursday, september 27 followed by new law & order: svu. both are getting extended airings for that week only. dateline nbc is back on friday, september 28. colleen hayesnbc universal thursday, october 4 features the return of superstore and new show i feel bad, but the big thing is the new season of will & grace (and jack and karen, of course). a week and a day after that (friday, october 12, date fans) is when blindspot returns, and finally we get new midnight, texas when it returns at the end of the month, on friday, october 26. nbc universal you'll notice that brooklyn nine-nine isn't on the line-up despite nbc now owning it. we're sure there's a lot of paperwork to sift through, so give them time. well, that, and they've already confirmed it's unlikely to premiere its sixth season until 2019. also, we have no bloody clue when these shows are back in the uk, but we'll let you know when we find out. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy instagram and twitter account. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us us tv tv will & grace, this is us and more get us premiere dates good place final season & this is us get air dates kardashian, disick 'are in good place' sheen and richards "in a good place" nbc renews kristen bell's hit comedy the good place mischa barton: 'i'm in a good place' us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising