skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: windows our team has built the most robust source of information and guides on windows for your home. bedroom windows buying guide bedroom windows buying guide bedroom window treatments aren’t given much thought by many homeowners or renters. you might throw something over the window to block out light if you sleep late or skip it altogether if you’re an early riser. but bedroom window valances, curtains or other window treatme… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in bedroom / windows best pella replacement windows s_photo / shuttershock keeping a home comfortable in all seasons and weather conditions is the goal of every homeowner. this often means installing efficient hvac systems, like furnaces and air conditioners. but old or porous windows can render even the most high-quality hvac system ineffective and… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in windows best andersen replacement windows of 2020 romacoma / shuttershock the andersen windows and doors corporation was incorporated slightly over a century ago. over the years, the company has redefined industrial trends and practices, working its way to the top as america’s premier window manufacturer. for homeowners looking to replace the… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in windows bathroom window buying guide image: astronaut images/getty images bathroom window buying guide changing your bathroom window can help you maximize available light while maintaining privacy. when choosing a bathroom window, you should consider lighting, privacy, and ventilation. a window with the perfect mix of these features ca… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in windows best replacement windows regfer / shuttershock best replacement windows: reviews and comparison finding the perfect replacement window for your home can be tough, especially when you have so many options to choose from. to choose the best option for your needs, you should consider factors like material type, window s… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in windows the benefits of double-pane windows you’re curled up on the couch in your living room on a cold day, and suddenly feel a draft that makes the hair on your neck stand up. the window isn’t open, but it’s allowing heat to escape and letting the cool air in. the department of energy reports… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in windows how to choose energy-efficient windows for your home replacing the windows in your home might not be the most eye-catching upgrade you can make, but it is one of the most cost-effective ways to touch up your home. invest in energy-efficient windows to save money on energy bills and receive numerous other benefits. check out the… by kdanburg on march 4, 2020 in windows andersen windows andersen windows is the largest window company in the world. founded in 1903 as a lumber company, it was named the top window brand for wood and wood-clad windows by builder magazine. romacoma / shuttershock andersen windows products andersen has six main product lines of windows. here they are,… by blake hughes on march 4, 2020 in windows pella windows pella has been in the window and door industry since 1925. they provide a wide range of wood, fiberglass and vinyl window options. they also offer top-of-the-line windows with smart home technology that continues their tradition of industry innovation. their insynctive technology adds security senso… by blake hughes on march 4, 2020 in windows kitchen windows guide — find the right choice for you from sipping coffee in the morning to cooking family dinners at night, we spend a lot of our day in the kitchen. for most homeowners, it’s important for the kitchen to be a happy and cheerful space. one of the most effective ways to do this is through kitchen window… by blake hughes on march 4, 2020 in windows 1 2 3 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss