project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure special occasions wine of the month gift basket idea share pin wine of the month gift basket idea with free printable every softball season, our league throws a silent auction fund raiser. each softball team is responsible for donating a basket. this year we had each parent donate their favorite bottle of wine and i came up with this wine of the month gift basket idea. watch the video making the wooden crate for the “basket” i used an unfinished wooden crate. i sanded it with an electric sander and then used 120 and 180 grit sandpaper to get in between the slats. after removing off the debris, i stained it gray. lastly, i also added rollers on the bottom because the basket is heavy. make sure the casters have a swivel top plate. here is a detailed post on making the crate. bag the wine bottles i bought these burlap wine bags on amazon. i love these and would buy them over and over again. they are great quality. here is my affiliate link. conveniently they come in a pack of 12 and are a great price. i designed 12-month tags as well as a wine of the month tag for the basket. you can print them here: wine of the month printable cut them out and use a hole punch to punch a hole and tie them to each wine bag. putting it all together i used a cardboard box to place at the bottom of the crate and covered it with tissue paper. be sure to stuff the inside of the box if it is hollow because the bottles are heavy, and the box may sag. after placing the bottles inside, i embellished the crate with tissue paper and shredded paper. punch two hole on either side of the circle tag and tie it on the crate with ribbon. i hope you like it! this would also make a fun anniversary or wedding shower present or for anyone who loves wine! leave a comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « diy seashell balloon art next post: 12 spring craft ideas for adults » reader interactions leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more