squarespace logo account dashboard log out products create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain templates resources squarespace blog help guides webinars forum log in log out get started squarespace logo products templates resources log in account dashboard log out get started create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain squarespace blog → stories and solutions for the modern entrepreneur help guides → in-depth guides about the platform, our services, and how to get started webinars → free, online sessions where you’ll learn the basics and refine your squarespace skills forum → squarespace forum is an online community for squarespace users and professionals to discuss best practices and seek advice photographer winona actress winona ryder created a photo essay about her birthplace, winona, mn, with squarespace. winona ryder was born on a farm on the outskirts of winona, mn. in 2020, she returned home to creative direct a photo essay of the town and the people who live there. squarespace lets winona display her photos and sell copies of the book she creative directed. welcometowinona.com →→ how winona shares her work on squarespace 01. award-winning designs start with one of our beautiful templates, then customize it by changing the color palette or adding a feature like photo galleries. 02. ecommerce templates set up your store exactly how you want and give customers a seamless shopping experience. 03. product merchandising make your products stand out with an easy-to-use drag-and-drop interface. ← → 01 / 01. award-winning designs start with one of our beautiful templates, then customize it by changing the color palette or adding a feature like photo galleries. 02. ecommerce templates set up your store exactly how you want and give customers a seamless shopping experience. 03. product merchandising make your products stand out with an easy-to-use drag-and-drop interface. "my goal was to capture the humanity of the people and the town. i tried to show the heart and soul, and the true character of the place or person. because when you do it right, it can reveal a lot. q&a with winona ryder tell us the story of how your parents decided to name you after the town of winona, minnesota. my parents were passing through winona on their way to san francisco from new york. the day before i was born, my mom was doing laundry at a local laundromat, where she saw a booklet with a picture of an american indian princess called the legend of winona. apparently, when she picked it up, it caused her to go into labor. about fourteen hours later, i was born in a farmhouse. i’m called a "shoelace baby" because i came out early and all my dad knew to do was boil a shoelace and tie off the umbilical cord. but it worked—i’m here. yay shoelaces! so you were born in winona. then where did your family go? we ended up in san francisco on telegraph hill in north beach. from there we moved up north to the mendocino area. we basically lived in a commune. there were 380 acres of redwoods, seven families and no electricity. it made for a really cool part of my childhood. we ate what we grew, we didn’t have television—it really encouraged us to use our imaginations. you’re creating a photo essay on the town of winona. can you tell us how you got into photography? my mom is a very good photographer and some of my earliest memories are of just looking through photography books with her. i started collecting photography when i started making money. i have a pretty wonderful collection. "when you truly capture a moment, it lasts forever. trust me, i know — i’ve been photographed a lot. it was exciting to be on the other side of the camera, behind the lens. ← → 01 02 / when you were taking and curating the photos for this project, was there anything in particular that you were trying to capture or document? my goal was to capture the humanity of the people and the town. i tried to show the heart and soul, and the true character of the place or person. because when you do it right, it can reveal a lot. when you truly capture a moment, it lasts forever. trust me, i know—i’ve been photographed a lot. it was exciting to be on the other side of the camera, behind the lens. squarespace exists to empower small business owners so they can pursue their dreams. do you think that’s important? absolutely. it’s crucial. it’s great that we’re in this town because winona represents a lot of places that aren’t talked about as much. the fact that squarespace was interested in showcasing the town and the businesses here is what drew me to the project. winona ryder brought her photo project to life on squarespace. share your passion with a beautiful website. get started →→ squarespace logo squarespace logo ↓ ↓ products ↓ website templates websites domains online stores point of sale extensions marketing tools email marketing scheduling stories professional email logo maker premium plan pricing feature list customers ↓ featured small businesses photographers bloggers artists restaurants musicians weddings students company ↓ about careers our brand press & media newsroom terms of service privacy policy contact us timeline imprint community ↓ help & support hire an expert forum webinars developer platform circle follow ↓ newsroom squarespace blog creative blog engineering blog service status instagram youtube linkedin facebook twitter