news aircraft lessors airlines airports routes capacity schedules location: home news need help? - faq on news print view news wisconsin's midwest express airlines ends elite partnership midwest express airlines bombardier crj200 © midwest express airlines 17.03.2020 - 04:19 utc midwest express airlines (milwaukee general mitchell) announced that it has ended its partnership with elite airways (7q, portland int'l jetport), the regional operator which was planned to provide charter capacity for the virtual carrier. according to a press release issued by midwest express on march 9, it has filed a lawsuit against its former partner because elite allegedly breached its agreement. according to lawsuit papers filed in the milwaukee county circuit court and seen by the milwaukee journal sentinel, midwest express decided to terminate its partnership with maine-based elite on december 31, 2019. within its agreement with elite, midwest express paid a deposit, which should have been returned if either party ended the partnership. to date, elite has allegedly not returned all of the deposit, despite multiple demands from midwest express, with the outstanding sum believed to be around usd150,000. the two companies entered into a partnership on july 31 last year, which envisaged midwest express beginning operations using elite aircraft, while the former continued the process of gaining its own air operator certificate (aoc) and aircraft. the intended destinations from milwaukee general mitchell were cincinnati int'l, omaha eppley and grand rapids, mi - all of which are presently unserved from the wisconsin airport. having originally intended to launch operations in late 2019 or early 2020, a new date has not been set for the start of services. elite would have flown a mixture of its crj200 and crj700 regional jets under the midwest express brand. according to the ch-aviation fleets advanced module, elite currently operates one crj100(er), five crj200(er)s, two -(lr)s, and five crj700(er)s. although midwest express is discontinuing its partnership, the airline’s president greg aretakis says its plan continues to move forward with a goal of delivering non-stop flights with exceptional customer service. “we are in substantial discussions with other airline operators to bring back non-stop service to milwaukee. we have received a tremendous amount of support from the business community and former passengers who tell us that they need better options for air travel in milwaukee, and we intend to deliver it.” while it begins the search for a new airline partner, midwest express is also continuing its fundraising efforts. elite was contacted for comment on the lawsuit by ch-aviation and said: "elite airways declines to comment at this time." editorial comment: updated on march 16 with comment from elite airways. - 16.03.2020 - 08:36 utc about midwest express airlines type virtual carrier base milwaukee general mitchell share this article linkedin e-mail twitter facebook to access our news database including full archive search and exclusive stories reported first by ch-aviation you need to upgrade to ch-aviation pro. with a ch-aviation pro subscription you benefit from a wide range of data and information such as: "news to go" - ability to view multiple full news articles on one page full access to all news articles including exclusive stories reported first by ch-aviation unlimited access to airline module: extended search options for over 7,490 airlines historical information (launch/end/merger details) stock market symbols fleet summaries subsidiary and parent relationships regional partners search airlines by alliance, airline type, status search airlines by homebase, country or routes/countries served search airlines by aircraft type and/or fleet size legal name, address, phone, linkedin page and e-mail average fleet and subfleet age and total number of seats passenger numbers and financial results alliance membership and details airline start-up tracker create your own favorite lists to group news articles unlimited access to airport module: extended search options for over 6,000 airports airport lists by state, country or continent airports nearby sorted by distance aircraft stored, scrapped or written off at airport get your own ch-aviation pro account today. click here. also on ch-aviation wisconsin's midwest express airlines revises launch to 2q20 06.03.2020 - 04:24 utc having originally intended to launch operations in late 2019 or early 2020, midwest express airlines (milwaukee general mitchell) has revised its plans and is now mooting an april debut, john pearsall, the president of capacity-provider elite airways (7q, portland int'l jetport), told the milwaukee business journal. midwest express will launch as a virtual carrier using the brand of midwest airlines (yx, milwaukee general mitchell), which merged into frontier airlines (f9, denver int'l) in 2009. for over 25 years, midwest airlines was milwaukee's hometown airline and nationally recognised for great service, non-stop routes, and warm chocolate chip cookies. when contacted by ch-aviation on the revised plans, laurie coleman, communications manager at midwest express said: "for obvious competitive reasons, we cannot disclose schedule details such as routes, frequencies, aircraft types, etc. until we are ready to make a public announcement." "i'm just excited to see midwest express return," pearsall said. "we know of their product, love their product." the airline president also mentioned the hand-baked fresh cookies on every flight.... wisconsin's midwest express airlines eyes late 4q19 launch 20.11.2019 - 04:49 utc midwest express airlines (milwaukee general mitchell) is planning to start operations in late 2019 or early 2020, although it has yet to start selling tickets or even publish a precise schedule. as reported by local tv station cbs58, president greg aretakis said at a meeting with the independent business association of wisconsin (ibaw) that the start-up had its infrastructure almost ready and will start selling tickets very soon. the virtual carrier will use the brand of defunct midwest airlines (yx, milwaukee general mitchell), which was taken over by frontier airlines (f9, denver int'l) in 2009. flights from milwaukee general mitchell to omaha eppley, grand rapids, mi, and cincinnati int'l will be operated by elite airways (7q, portland int'l jetport) using a crj200 regional jet seating 50 passengers. wisconsin's midwest express airlines reveals first routes 31.08.2019 - 06:15 utc midwest express airlines (milwaukee general mitchell) has revealed the first three interstate routes out of milwaukee general mitchell it plans to launch by the end of 2019 during a press conference. the start-up plans to initially operate to omaha eppley, grand rapids, mi, and cincinnati int'l, the local media have reported. the exact timeline for the launch and the proposed schedules have not been revealed yet. "providing non-stop flights to key business destinations fills an important niche, and we couldn’t be happier to welcome midwest express back home," milwaukee county executive chris abele said. midwest express airlines will launch as a virtual carrier using the brand of midwest airlines (yx, milwaukee general mitchell), which merged into frontier airlines (f9, denver int'l) in 2009. flights will initially be operated by elite airways (7q, portland int'l jetport) using a 50-seater crj200. midwest express airlines eyes 2019 launch as virtual airline 08.08.2019 - 09:18 utc midwest express airlines (milwaukee general mitchell) is planning to launch by the end of 2019, initially as a virtual carrier with all flights operated by elite airways (7q, portland int'l jetport). the carrier said in a press release that the partnership with elite airways was "a key step to bringing much-needed nonstop service back to milwaukee general mitchell". "we identified elite airways as a well-suited partner due to its extensive operating experience, high-quality customer service approach, and exemplary safety record. by partnering with elite, we expedite bringing our service to the market while we pursue federal licenses required to operate independently," president greg aretakis said. while elite airways will operate for midwest express airlines, the start-up carrier will have its own reservation system, branding of the aircraft, and customer service department. the carriers did not disclose how many aircraft and which types elite airways will operate for midwest express airlines. according to the ch-aviation fleets advanced module, elite's fleet currently includes one crj100er, five crj200ers, two -lrs,... most popular world gov'ts devise airline assistance plans 23-29mar prorome to reboot alitalia with just 25 to 30 aircraft - reportlessors move to repossess interjet's a320 family jets prosaudi arabia's nesma airlines suspends flight operations provirgin to inject $250mn, v atlantic moves to heathrow newsletter want to receive the latest aviation news delivered right to your mailbox every week? get our rss feed ch-aviation online subscription ch-aviation pro fleets advanced fleets ownership charter aircraft contacts schedules capacities pss data feeds ch-aviation raw data feed ch-aviation acmi report web check-in link data about ch-aviation about us advertising opportunities media enquiries university access careers legal information terms and conditions privacy policy impressum contact ch-aviation gmbh quaderstrasse 8 7000 chur switzerland phone: +41 (0) 44 508 47 07 feedback@ch-aviation.com © 1998-2020 ch-aviation gmbh. all rights reserved. x