menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login the quote archive choose from the following categories acceptance anger anxiety appreciation approval attention attitude authenticity balance beauty beliefs busyness calm challenges change choices comfort comparison compassion confidence conflict control courage criticism death decisions desires determination disappointment dreams enjoyment envy expectations failure fairness fear feelings forgiveness freedom friendship fun giving goals gratitude greatness growth guilt happiness healing health honesty hope impermanence jealousy joy judgment kindness knowledge laughter leadership lessons listening loneliness loss love meaning mindfulness minimalism mistakes money motivation opportunities pain passion patience peace perfection perspective possibilities procrastination purpose regret rejection relaxation resentment responsibility righteousness risks sadness self-love sensitivity shame silence simplicity sorrow strength stress success support surrender thoughts time trust truth uncertainty understanding vulnerability weakness wisdom worry be like an elephant: remember what matters, look out for your herd, and don’t be afraid to take up space. lori deschene people used to drive me crazy. now i don’t get into their car. nancy rapp no matter what you do, someone won’t be pleased. someone will think your choices are wrong. and someone will tell you what should do instead. no matter which path you take, someone will seem to be doing better. someone will have more than you. and someone else’s life may look more impressive on paper. if you’re being true to yourself, none of that will matter because you’ll have something more satisfying than approval and the illusion of “success”: a life that feels right for you, based on your own wants, needs, values, and priorities. lori deschene in the end, people will judge you anyway. so don’t live your life impressing others. live your life impressing yourself. eunice camacho infante i’m a big fan of watching people grow and become healthier, happier versions of themselves. unknown you can’t be everyone’s hero. you can’t take away everyone’s pain, solve all their problems, and make them feel happy with themselves and their lives. all you can do is love them, and that’s all you have to do. just love them in their messiness, their confusion, their grief. see them, hear them, and accept them without judgment. then let them know it’s okay to be right where they are, and if and when they need you, you’ll be there. lori deschene you are not responsible for the programming you received in childhood. but as an adult, you are 100% responsible for fixing it.⠀ unknown let your weird light shine bright so the other weirdos know where to find you.⠀ unknown be the person who breaks the cycle. if you were judged, choose understanding. if you were rejected, choose acceptance. if you were shamed, choose compassion. be the person you needed when you were hurting, not the person who hurt you. vow to be better than what broke you—to heal instead of becoming bitter so you can act from your heart, not your pain. lori deschene sometimes what looks like an obstacle in your path is actually a gift meant to move you in a different direction. jane lee logan i hope you live louder. i hope you laugh more. i hope you sing at the top of your lungs. i hope you drive with the windows down and let the wind rustle through your hair. i hope you hug. i hope you kiss. i hope you surround yourself with people who make you feel alive. i hope you become the type of person that brings good energy wherever you go, and the type of person people want to be around. i hope you speak what’s on your mind, that you raise your voice for injustice, that you tell others that you love them, instead of waiting until it’s too late. i hope you live louder, shine brighter. from this moment on. marisa donnelly⠀ maturity is realizing how many things don’t require your comment. rachel wolchin whatever you’re feeling, be good to yourself. if you feel lost, be patient with yourself while you find your way. if you feel scared, be gentle with yourself while you find the strength to face your fear. if you feel hurt, be kind to yourself while you grieve and slowly heal. you can’t bully yourself into clarity, courage, or peace, and you can’t rush self-discovery or transformation. some things simply take time, so take the pressure off and give yourself space to grow. lori deschene i truly appreciate kindness. i appreciate people checking up on me. i appreciate a quick message. i appreciate those who ask if i’m okay. i appreciate every single person in my life who has tried to brighten my days. it’s the little things that matter the most.⠀ unknown and some days life is just hard. and some days are just rough. and some days you just gotta cry before you move forward. and all of that is okay. unknown if you don’t love yourself, you’ll always be chasing after people who don’t love you either. mandy hale maturity doesn’t mean age. it’s sensitivity, manners, and how you react. unknown sometimes you just have to take a step back, take stock of your life, and recognize what isn’t serving you. it might be a relationship that causes you nothing but heartache, a pattern of behavior that sets you up for disappointment or failure, or even just a refusal to accept reality for what it is. whatever it is that causes you pain, find the self-awareness to be honest with yourself and the strength to let it go. nothing will change till you do. lori deschene⠀ don’t personalize or internalize other people’s behavior. what they do is not a reflection of you. their actions represent them and where they are in their growth. just observe instead of getting caught up and overreacting emotionally. idil ahmed⠀ the only person i ever lost and needed back was myself. unknown page 1 of 8612345...102030...»last » search tiny buddha translate free download: buddha desktop wallpaper fun & inspiring don’t let social distance lead to emotional distance get more fun & inspiring images & videos. disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top