wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » opinion » wix vs wordpress – which one is better? (pros and cons) wix vs wordpress – which one is better? (pros and cons) last updated on february 14th, 2019 by editorial staff 1.6k shares share tweet share pin are you trying to decide between wix vs wordpress to build your website? while wordpress is the most popular website builder in the world, it is not the only option. after seeing tv commercials for wix, some of our users asked us to do a detailed comparison of wix vs wordpress to find out which is the better choice. in this article, we will compare wix vs wordpress and highlight the pros and cons. our hope is that with this wix review and comparison, you will be able to decide which platform is right for your needs. note: this article compares wix vs self hosted wordpress.org not wordpress.com. see the difference between self-hosted wordpress.org vs wordpress.com sites. we have broken down this comparison into 7 categories: wix vs wordpress costs ease of use comparison design options in wix vs wordpress plugins and apps wix vs wordpress – which one is better for blogging? ecommerce comparison data portability let’s see how wix and wordpress stack up into each of these categories. 1. pricing and costs the cost of building a website is an important factor when choosing your site builder platform. the total costs of developing and maintaining your site will entirely depend on your needs. our goal is to make sure that you can do whatever you need within your budget. let’s compare the pricing of wix and wordpress to find out which one gives you more bang for the buck. wix: wix offers a basic website builder for free. however, there are two major downsides to it. first, it adds wix branded advertisements on the top and bottom of your website. second, you cannot use a custom domain name for your site, so your website address will be: username.wix.com/sitename apart from that, the basic plan does not offer necessary add-ons such as google analytics, favicons, ecommerce, etc. to remove ads and get additional features from their apps market, you’ll have to upgrade to one of the premium plans they offer. each wix premium plan has different storage and bandwidth limitations. you can pay monthly or choose a yearly plan. the best value plans on wix is the unlimited plan ($12.50 / month), and if you want an ecommerce store, then you need the ecommerce plan ($16.50 / month). this cost does not include any apps that you later choose to buy from the wix app market to use on your website. wordpress: the wordpress software is open source, and it is available for free for anyone to use. we often get asked about why is wordpress free and what’s the catch? well, the biggest catch is that you need your own domain name and web hosting to install it. there are several wordpress hosting providers that you can choose from. see our guide on how to choose the best wordpress hosting company. depending on your budget, you can start with a basic plan with a wordpress hosting provider like bluehost that will cost you $2.75 per month and includes a free custom domain name. if your budget permits, then you can use a managed wordpress hosting provider like wp engine which costs $29 per month. the cost of a wordpress site will increase if you decide to use premium wordpress themes or plugins (similar to apps in wordpress). however, there are thousands of free wordpress themes and plugins available that you can use to reduce costs. you can add any feature to your wordpress site using a plugin without upgrading your hosting plan. for more information, see our guide on how much does it cost to build a wordpress site. conclusion: wordpress beats wix with flexible plans available from a variety of web hosting companies. the cost depends on how much resources you use, and you are free to use your wordpress site in any way you want. 2. ease of use most beginners choose wix or wordpress because they don’t want to hire a website designer. both wix and wordpress allow you to create websites without learning to code. wix: wix comes with powerful and easy to use tools to build your own website. it offers a simple drag and drop interface where you can select any element on your site and start editing it in a wysiwyg interface. you can drag and drop items anywhere on your site, rearrange things on your pages, write content, and add media in a user-friendly environment. many beginners would find this feature a blessing as it saves them from dealing with code. wordpress: wordpress comes with a visual editor to write your content, and a theme customizer which allows you to edit your theme properties in a wysiwyg environment. however, by default wordpress does not come with a built-in drag and drop page builder. to get the full control of the appearance, users will have to familiarize themselves with different sections like navigation menus, customizer, visual post editor, etc. this means that wordpress requires a small learning curve for beginners. on the other hand, there are thousands of themes that make customization really easy. conclusion: wix is clearly the winner here. users don’t need to spend much time to learn the platform or install any plugins before they can start building their website. on the other hand, they will need to understand wordpress basics and may need to install plugins to build their site. however you can use powerful wordpress page builder plugins like beaverbuilder or divi that offers a lot more powerful features than the wix builder. this is why smart business owners use wordpress because it offers them greater flexibility. 3. design and layout your site’s design and layout play an important role in your success. every site owner needs a design that’s not only good looking, but also user-friendly and makes their brand stand-out. wix: wix comes with more than 500+ pre-made templates to choose from. all wix designs are fully responsive and written in html5. using the built-in tools, you can further customize your site design, change the layout, and rearrange items as you see fit. there are designs available for every kind of site. templates are divided into categories like business, ecommerce, hobbies, arts & crafts, personal, etc. one big disadvantage is that once you have selected a template, you cannot change it. you can modify it and customize it as much as you want using only the built-in tools, but you cannot switch to another template. wordpress: there are thousands of free and paid themes available for wordpress. free themes come with limited support, but they also go through a strict review process. paid themes generally offer more features and come with premium support options. wordpress themes range from small personal sites to full-fledged ecommerce sites. most themes come with built-in customization options of their own. you can also use one of the many styling plugins to further style or customize your wordpress themes. users can download free themes from wordpess.org directory. for paid themes, there are several wordpress theme shops like themify, cssigniter, studiopress, and more. see our list of the best commercial wordpress theme shops. furthermore, you can hire a developer or learn to create a completely custom theme for your company. conclusion: wordpress has a much larger range of themes and design layouts than wix. wordpress users can also easily switch themes or customize them as much as they want without any restrictions. 4. plugins and apps plugins and apps are third-party extensions that you can use with your platform to add more features. wix calls them apps, and in wordpress ecosystem, they are called plugins. let’s compare apps and plugins available on both platforms and what you can do with them. wix: wix comes with nearly 200+ apps that you can add to your site. these apps offer a wide range of features like adding contact forms, gallery, comments, social media buttons, email marketing and so on. most apps are free or have a lite version. other apps require monthly payments and vary in prices. even though there is a limited collection of apps, they cover most commonly requested features by site owners. wordpress: at the time of writing this article, there are more than 55,000+ free plugins available in the wordpress.org plugin directory alone. not to mention, premium plugins available on other marketplaces. the saying goes: if you can think of a feature, there’s probably a wordpress plugin that makes it happen. whether you want to create a contact form, install google analytics, build a membership website, or sell online courses, there’s a plugin for that. you can do just about anything you like with wordpress. there are plenty of plugins both free and paid which you can use to build a website of your dreams. conclusion: wordpress easily beats wix in this area as well. even though wix’s app library is growing, it is still limited in comparison to the huge choice available to wordpress users. 5. wix vs wordpress – which one is better for blogging? many users are looking for an easier platform to start blogging. wix and wordpress both can be used to create blogs. let’s take a look at which one does it better. blogging with wix wix allows you to easily add a blog section to your website. it has all the basic blogging features you’ll commonly use. for example, categories and tags, photo and videos, archives, etc. however, it does not have a native commenting system like wordpress. instead, it uses facebook comments and those comments are not portable. it also lacks several features like featured images, backdating posts, creating private posts, and more. the writing interface for blog posts is not the same as wix website builder. instead, it uses a plain text editor which is very limited in terms of formatting options. blogging with wordpress wordpress started out as a blogging platform and evolved into a full-blown website builder. today it powers nearly 33% of all websites. it has all the blogging features you will need like a native commenting system and all other advanced features that are missing from wix. it comes with the powerful gutenberg block editor which allows you to create beautiful layouts for your blog posts. most importantly, you can extend your blog using plugins and add any feature that you can think of. conclusion wordpress totally outshines wix as a blogging platform. wix blogs are too basic and lacks several important features. if you are thinking about starting a blog, then wix doesn’t even come close to wordpress. 6. wix vs wordpress ecommerce comparison selling things online is another important feature that most beginners look for. let’s see how wordpress and wix compare in ecommerce. wix: wix offers ecommerce with their paid plans. this means users with the free plan cannot run their ecommerce store on wix without upgrading to a paid plan. with the wixstores, you can only accept payments using paypal or authorize.net. there are a few third-party apps that you can use for selling things online, but those apps would cost you even more money with their monthly fees. not to mention you have limited payment gateways and functionality. wordpress: wordpress makes it super easy to create your online store using woocommerce, which powers more than 42% of all ecommerce websites in the world. there are also plenty of other ecommerce plugins available for wordpress that you can use to sell physical or digital goods, services, events, subscriptions, and more. most ecommerce plugins for wordpress even have their own dedicated themes and add-on plugins. see our list of best woocommerce themes for some excellent examples. conclusion: if you want to build a proper online store and be ready for growth, then wordpress + woocommerce offers much more flexibility, freedom, and choices when compared to wix. 7. data portability options in wix vs wordpress data portability allows you the freedom to move your content away when you need it. let’s take a look at how wix and wordpress help you move your content away if you need. data portability options in wix wix comes with very limited options to move your content to another platform. you can only export your blog posts in xml format. you’ll have to manually download your pages, images, videos, and other content. according to wix documentation, all your content is hosted exclusively on wix’s servers and cannot be exported elsewhere. this makes it a bit difficult to move your content to another platform if needed. however, you can still transfer a wix site. see our article, on how to switch from wix to wordpress for more details. data portability options in wordpress wordpress makes it extremely easy to export your content. it comes with a one-click exporter that allows you to download your content in xml format. since it is a self-hosted platform, you can also create complete wordpress backups, download your media files, and even manually export your wordpress database. you can then easily move your wordpress site to a new host if you are not satisfied with your current wordpress hosting company. conclusion: wordpress is a lot better when it comes to downloading and moving your data. wix, on the other hand, makes it quite difficult to move your content away. summary wordpress is far superior to wix as a web publishing platform for any kind of website. while wix offers an easy to use website builder, you can accomplish a lot more with wordpress over the long run. see our guide on how to make a website using wordpress for step by step instructions. we hope this article helped you compare wix vs wordpress and learn their pros and cons. you may also want to see our actionable tips on driving traffic to your new wordpress site. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.6k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 67 commentsleave a reply mike keiser says: mar 18, 2020 at 12:18 pm very informative article. it contained a great deal of clear information and answered some questions for me. well done! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2020 at 8:43 am thank you, glad you found our article informative reply martin ruskov says: feb 5, 2020 at 5:04 am very good content kept me engaged until the very end without skipping a single sentence. thank you for the amazing comparison. i now do feel a lot more confident to start my second website with wordpress again. i am looking to build something like an online magazine. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 5, 2020 at 8:31 am you’re welcome, glad you like our content reply the indian nomad says: jun 12, 2019 at 6:05 am i have a wix site and i am ok with it. i had purchased a wordpress account as well but the learning curve was really high. so shifted to a wix site and it is solving my requirements. only downside is that the entire webpage loads at once, so the website may seem a little slow compared to wordpress sites. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 12, 2019 at 11:06 am learning a new method to create a site can be difficult once you know one method already. hopefully in the future you’re willing to try wordpress again reply rich says: may 26, 2019 at 7:04 am a few probably really stupid questions: 1) is there any way to build a wordpress site before you actually invest in getting a server to just try it out without publishing or going live or what have ya? see how it would look a test the possibilities? 2) these services and cheap plans you mention that you have struck deals with to get good prices for wp creators, i am assuming those are shared servers with also limited control over many things you can do with your site being on their shared server. what kind of server does wp require? ty! reply wpbeginner support says: may 28, 2019 at 2:28 pm 1. you could create a local installation using the method from our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/how-to-install-wordpress/#installlocal 2. shared servers don’t limit what you can do other than how large the site can be before needing to upgrade your plan to handle the load of the site. for the wordpress requirements, you would want to take a look at our page here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wordpress-hosting/ reply colin says: apr 30, 2019 at 11:05 am wordpress wins all the time with me. not an it geek, but i can easily use and create a half decent site using wordpress.com. the problem is deciding what theme to use as there are so many good ones. reply wpbeginner support says: may 1, 2019 at 10:59 am glad you’ve been enjoying using wordpress reply bamidele says: apr 3, 2019 at 4:21 am i have used both wix and wordpress and there is no comparison between the two. if you need a flexible and scalable platform , then wordpress is the platform. with tons of free plugins and themes in wordpress repository, you will be able to make your website look the way you want. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 3, 2019 at 11:10 am thanks for sharing your opinion reply jo far says: feb 13, 2019 at 7:28 pm just beginning research on making a small business webpage. this was very helpful, especially the comments from those who’ve used both….able to compare both in a way that seemed more objective. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 14, 2019 at 11:15 am glad our article and the recommendations from the community could help reply kristen says: feb 6, 2019 at 11:43 am wix is waaaaay easier to use. sure, wordpress has more plugins, but they’re confusing to use, not all of them work together, and the price adds up as you need more an more plugins to do what you need. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 7, 2019 at 10:50 am thanks for your feedback, not all wordpress plugins require a purchase but it is an understandable concern reply mark harris says: apr 3, 2019 at 11:22 am exactly! for photographers, for example, wix is a lot easier to setup and get fantastic looking portfolios. reply simon says: feb 5, 2019 at 6:44 am wordpress all they way. maybe if wix tones down on their annoying ads i may have a look, but its very of putting. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 5, 2019 at 11:17 am thanks for sharing your opinion reply ram says: jan 10, 2019 at 11:57 pm i have used both but wordpress if far better and flexible compare to redefine formats of wix. also coding flexibility and customization where wix in many corners fails. this is the reason i switch to wordpress from wix reply wpbeginner support says: jan 11, 2019 at 12:55 pm thanks for your added input on this reply lex dunn says: nov 13, 2018 at 1:39 pm i have used both wordpress and wix. my feeling is that i would choose wordpress again only if i was threatened to have bamboo shoots imbedded under my fingernails. it is beyond awkward to use, virtually impossible to design it the way you want and looked totally different on safari than it did on chrome. it’s clunky and ugly. wix is easy, elegant and, yes virginia, you can have your own url if you select to host your site with them. you have to pay to host your site with somebody, anyway. for me, there is no comparison. just because something is more popular doesn’t make it better – madonna had bigger sales than aretha franklyn … i rest my case. reply bhawana says: oct 16, 2018 at 12:45 am thank you for sharing this. it was a great help. reply daniel says: aug 13, 2018 at 9:56 am looking at the comparison between wix and wordpress, wordpress is the outstanding platform to build a website because the interface is user friendly. an d it enable its user to customize their website with the help of plugins and widgets on like wix it does not provide these features. reply michaelq says: jun 12, 2018 at 4:11 pm fairly unfair to compare wix vs wordpress dot org, and just assume more is better (themes & plugins). would be a much better comparison with wordpress dot com as surely that is what wix is comparable to? reply sutalesia john says: jun 12, 2018 at 4:01 am after endlessly reading about blogging i decided to go with wordpress dot com and will gradually transfer to wordpress dot org when i have enough money to do so. so many thing to ponder and to do but i think by making this decision i will help me grow seamlessl6y without any major hassle in the future. thank you for the post. it really is a major help for me. reply angeles says: jun 1, 2018 at 10:59 am hi, i understand the advantages of wordpress – which is the default platform chosen by most bloggers. still, i’m surprised by some comments, as i tried free workpress and found it ugly and hardwork, not user-friendly at all (i’m used to customise platforms for private communities) and i tried wix and loved the templates, found it super-easy to customise them, to supervise its mobile version (someone said here that it’s not developed when it’s really easy to manage both versions and spot what doesn’t work on mobile), and reasonable in price by comparison (i have an ecommerce platform with a limit on how many products i can sell for £10 a month). i am aware that i couldn’t move my site to another platform and i did buy a domain as well – a year ago it was far cheaper for me to buy these features here than in squarespace, which i don’t recommend either. i see the potential for growth that wordpress offers but you have to get there first and pay for it while you grow too. i don’t know whether different people find different platform designs easier, to me wordpress was hard work and it looked ugly, while wix templates were much nicer and flexible. the only thing i’d say is that i choose the manual option over the ai one, which i found a nightmare in wix. i had my website there for a year, people like it and i had never had server problems. reply claire says: may 9, 2018 at 5:57 pm i am very disillusioned with wix and am thinking of cancelling after reading all these glowing reviews on various sites i chose them, it took me ages to work out how to do the site in the first place, there were several reviews saying no hidden costs, utter rubbish when i signed up it came up with different options i chose ecommerce and paid for the month when i had almost finished it they contacted me to say i had to upgrade if i wanted to sell anything on it even though that is what i paid for in the first place, and then you have to buy a domain separately because the domain name they gave me was my email address which is a ridiculous thing, they charge quite a bit for their domain name usage, then there is the fee for having the payment option with them which does work out quite a lot if added up, wix i think is a bit of a rip off and not very good, this is the english site i am referring to and the prices are a lot dearer than the american site reply stan moore says: apr 9, 2018 at 9:06 am word press is far superior and deiivers much better solutions than wix. wix has many hidden charges which do not become evident until you actually subscribe to designing a website with them… the third party developers charge over the top prices for poorly designed plug ins. wix should monitor these designers more closely and and only allow well designed apps at more realistic prices. reply jane says: dec 29, 2017 at 5:39 pm i do not know code nor am tech savvy… after reading the article, i decided to go with wix; but after reading all the comments, i decided to go with wordpress… and hope i can do what i need there without having to pay smart-tech people for endless help. reply daniel russell says: dec 1, 2017 at 7:59 pm one thing that wasn’t mentioned here is that with wix your site is not mobile friendly. you have to adjust each and every page you build in their “mobile editor ” which is a pain in the ass. i own a construction company and have been using wix for several years now for our company website. after doing the research on wordpress i am making the switch. basically having to start from scratch because wix sites cannot be transferred to wordpress. reply michael bryner says: nov 25, 2016 at 5:01 pm another downside to wix is you still pay high price of their top price of almost $30 a month and total of 50gb space, which today is very low, especially when using images on a website or doing a blog. for big sites, that is a little pricey for shared hosting. you can do a heck of a lot better and cheaper else where. wordpress and on hosting site is even cheaper and more flexible too. hell, there is even hosting for wordpress and more space and bandwidth, than what wix offers. wix to me is very limited for almost $30 a month premium. reply momo says: nov 2, 2016 at 8:12 pm good job, you saved me time with your article reply cheryl haynes says: aug 21, 2016 at 11:23 am thanks for the article, i had wondered at this when i signed up with wix. i will more than likely go ahead and switch to wordpress… wix is really easy to use but since i have just started playing with it to get an idea of how i want my page laid out, with all this advice and advice from a friend of mine that uses wordpress, i think i will go ahead and make that change. reply tomasas says: apr 22, 2016 at 4:03 pm i have tried both and i think wix is better, but now i made my personal page very easy, quickly and for free with site pro i realy enjoyed creating my website and recomend to try it. reply tara says: apr 16, 2016 at 12:48 pm most reviews you find about how fabulous wix is, are fake. wix also pays bloggers to endorse their product. so when you go on a tech site doing a review on wix, it is normally pro wix. just keep in mind that you do not have ownership of your website when using wix. you have 100% ownership of your website on wordpress reply anton says: oct 21, 2016 at 2:59 pm hi tara, does it mean i would not have the ownership on the contents i publish on my website as well? reply chris mcelroy says: sep 17, 2017 at 8:28 pm make sure you back up all of your content if you’re using wix. violate their terms of service and they can close it down and you won’t have access. with wordpress and your own domain, you own everything and you write your own terms of service. there are 0 upsides to running your business through wix vs wordpress on your own domain. reply dia patatoukos says: apr 11, 2016 at 3:41 am wix code base is not optimal for seo and does not allow the control necessary for ongoing search engine marketing. so regardless of the inability to scale the website, even a small business needs to be competitive in search results. if your business can not be found in search then there is no point in building a website at all. wix haven’t gotten any better either. for less cost than a premium wix plan, you can have a wordpress website, self hosted that will perform in search results and will also grow with your business. reply d.. says: jan 22, 2017 at 10:30 am i thought this as well. but there is information out there dispelling this myth. google search “wix vs wordpress seo” and notice that within the top 3-4 results they give clear indication as to how little significance a particular website builder has on search engine rankings. reply virgil says: may 22, 2017 at 11:06 pm no google does not favor what type of website builder you use. however, the search engine factors in everything – including speed, the type of content whether its relevant to your industry, keywords and description, your domain authority, headlines, pictures, headlines, categories, tags, etc. wordpress also have many great tools and plugins to insure your site is fully optimized for seo. wix doesn’t offer such tools to what wordpress has available. there is a reason why the top bloggers recommend and use wordpress. google just loves wordpress because of integrated, supported and premium features thats dedicated to ranking on google. wix is lacking in this regard. thus wordpress wins hands down in this regard. reply jorma says: feb 22, 2016 at 9:03 am im a graphic designer that makes easy sites that dont need huge seos and sing ins. for example, to make a site for a restaurant or a freelance photographer that needs only pictures and text, wix wins by far. simple and neat. its like comparing apples and oranges or better yet apple and pcs. reply sameer panda says: jan 9, 2016 at 2:54 am i was using wix previously, i shifted to wordpress last year. wordpress is much more cheaper and featured than wix. reply lana says: apr 9, 2016 at 10:14 pm hi sameer, thanks for your comment! when you shift your website from wix to wordpress, did you take your domain over too? i am curious because i am just in an middle of creating a site using wix, but looks like in the long run, i will be better off with wordpress i don’t need a feature to accommodate e-commerce, just something people can book my coaching sessions. thanks for any help or suggestions. reply michael bryner says: nov 25, 2016 at 5:05 pm you are right about wordpress cheaper and i never used wix even once. just seeing their prices is obvious. just look for a hosting for wordpress and you will be paying a lot less. your site will also expand to heck of a lot bigger too for cheaper. reply greg schudel says: jul 26, 2015 at 10:24 am what about wordpress vs. squarespace? or the grid? that would be an interesting comparison, yes? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 27, 2015 at 4:48 pm see our comparison of wordpress vs squarespace. reply michael bryner says: nov 25, 2016 at 5:11 pm just looking at the pricing for squarespace is enticing for a personal or business site. unlimited space is a catcher there. the only problem or thing to worry about is shared hosting is there plans, and if your site gets really busy, then probably start upping the price. same goes for wordpress on web hosting companies. i never used squarespace but with using wordpress, and not on paid hosting. wordpress is still my first choice, even when i do have money to pay for a website. wordpress is so universal to all coding, it is that nice. anything that has their own built site builder, more likely is not as easy as wordpress. reply brian loebig says: jul 18, 2015 at 10:24 pm another element that was not addressed in the article is about security. wp is the most hacked platform on earth. wix wins on that front and the thousands of plugins available for wp are a very mixed bag. some will bring your site crashing to its knees, not function as advertised, or end up not being supported by the original developer over time. wix apps are more likely to be safe and supported since they are integrated into the cms. that being said, i still think a thoughtfully designed wp site with careful consideration of the webhost, apps and theme is often a better solution, but at a significantly higher cost and learning curve than wix. (my 2 cents). reply ray says: jan 14, 2016 at 10:19 pm this maybe the case because its also the most popular platform in the world by far. if you are a hacker why would you concentrate on small fish? wix is limited – you cant make your wix site any faster. you cant change many things because it breaks the back end. its hard to make your website with custom functions. you cant run multiple logins to modify different parts of your site from different users. you cant create accounts. as a small time user of websites you might not think it significant. but when you need your site to perform, to allow multiple levels of security for editing, to be able to fine tune seo and to make your site run like a freight train through tuned hosting and actually create custom databases and functions – then wordpress and other opensource cms kill wix reply michael bryner says: nov 25, 2016 at 5:13 pm there is so many things you can do to protect wordpress, it is just so many people make a big deal about the security. reply virgil says: may 22, 2017 at 11:12 pm if you don’t need security than wix is the way to go. because its nothing more than a simple website that really doesn’t need to be secured. however, if you really need security because your running an online store and accept online payments, then wordpress is the way to go. thats because you can add so many different ways to protect your website that it also hacker proof. many wordpress sites get hacked because someone didn’t protect their site and its their fault. its not the fault of wordpress. reply rapunzelo says: jul 13, 2015 at 11:51 am a very important feature is that you have the design wp “always”, whereas with wix, you lose if you do not continue with the hosting. reply tazimahmed says: jul 13, 2015 at 5:22 am i think wordpress is easier than wix as throgh wordpress we can create websites manually. reply gerard says: jul 13, 2015 at 3:11 am a somewhat superficial article and, though containing fair conclusions, hardly subjective since you guys are in the wordpress business and not in the wix business. reply brian says: jul 18, 2015 at 10:22 pm agreed gerard. reply bud hines says: jul 12, 2015 at 9:23 am this is good information to know for those of us who are not familiar with either of these products. further, it provides us with the true cost and limitations of wix and the strengths of wp. thank you for providing this comparison. reply izham says: jul 9, 2015 at 5:43 pm well said there. i’ve been curious to know what is wix all about. i’ve seen its adds all around adsense and wonder those it superior to wordpress? or blogspot? for beginner, yes it will be the best. but wordpress learning curve isn’t that hard. the beginner just need a real teacher teaching them the real way of handling wordpress. reply michael bryner says: nov 25, 2016 at 5:16 pm you don’t need a teacher for wordpress, it is that easy to use. if you need a teacher for it, then something is wrong with that person. i started without even asking questions or anything and it was installed and ran just perfectly. wordpress to me is the easiest platform and looks awesome with any theme. reply mohsin alam says: jul 9, 2015 at 4:40 pm wix is easy drag & drop system but has limited feature, where wp has unlimited possibility! it better not compare between wix & wordpress. it’s better to compare wix with other platform like weebly, webs, webdone etc reply jeff says: jul 9, 2015 at 12:57 pm i was hoping to see something on wix security. reply suzy says: nov 8, 2018 at 2:45 pm i just cancelled my wix account because all my products disappeared. i contacted them and they said it looks like i deleted them. more importantly, they couldn’t get them back. i started adding products again just to see those disappear a couple days later. what i found really strange was that i lost the product app. i compared my site to a template i downloaded and i lost quite a few tools. they did an update on november 1st and this started happening on the 2nd. again, they couldn’t help and said it looked like it was the fault of the user. i thought, maybe i did delete weeks of work accidentally but when it happened again and i lost access to their tools, i knew it wasn’t me. i don’t feel secure using them anymore. reply adrienne says: jul 9, 2015 at 12:44 pm i looked at wix for a minute, but it’s just doesn’t have the power of wordpress, and dismissed it. reply kheti nada says: jul 9, 2015 at 12:38 pm “while wix offers an easy to use website builder …” you said it all and i guess that’s what almost all wordpress users and newbies are looking for. it’s not everyone who can code. please hurry, wordpress! thanks for the comparison. reply jowett go says: jul 9, 2015 at 12:07 pm this comparison really just make me laugh… wordpress is far superior than wix. in my opinion, wix is for those non-developers or people who really don’t have any background of how the web works and how one can put up a site. there are a lot of paid apps/plugins in wix that you can get for free in wordpress. plus, highly customizable. almost every steps you do in wix to put your site up live needs to be paid. meh. and oh, i hate how wix restricts people to add codes in any webpage you create in wix. codes such as google verification, and some scripts such as abandonaid and such. reply matthew says: jul 9, 2015 at 11:30 am what is the point of this. isn’t it obvious that wordpress is better to begin with. reply cathy goodwin says: jul 9, 2015 at 11:14 am forget wix! you’ll eventually outgrow it and you’ll need a website that grows with your business. i put all my clients on wordpress (and send them to this site for help!). reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) ipage coupon get over 83% off on ipage web hosting and a free domain name. wp manage ninja coupon get 15% off on wp manage ninja wordpress themes and plugins. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.