home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library family health front page tips on getting pregnant prevnext women have an equal role in gender selection before conception leyla preston wed 23rd may 2018 0shares share tweet pin conception is that moment when the final standing male sperm beats the vying sperm in the race to fertilise the female egg (ova) and kickstart pregnancy. if the winning sperm contains a ‘y’ chromosome, that baby will become a boy. alternatively, if the sperm contains ‘x’ chromosomes, the baby will become a girl. many sources claim that you can maximise your chances of conceiving either a boy or a girl through fad diets and certain fancy positions and that getting the baby boy or girl you want is, ultimately, down to pure luck. plus, if you wanted to find out whether these diets and conceivable positions worked, you would typically have to wait until the 20-week ultrasound scan to catch a glimpse of your baby’s parts – and, even then, it’s not 100% accurate. but, what if a company from america has come forward and not only claims that they can, with over 90% accuracy, offer gender determination of baby from the date of conception but also claim that women have an equal role in gender selection of their baby before conception has even begun? table of contents urobiologics’ hypothesis – women’s hormonal environments can determine gender the pregender preconception test service (for gender planning before pregnancy) the science behind the pregender preconception test the firstgender test service (for gender detection after pregnancy) what is the scientific basis of the early firstgender test? more information about urobiologics isn’t urobiologic’s pregender test just a natural way of creating designer babies? how do i order a test? urobiologics’ hypothesis – women’s hormonal environments can determine gender a company called urobiologics extensively researched 100% natural, non-invasive methods of gender selection and post-conception gender determination, and they have finally proven that there is a way. the answer lies within the woman’s hormonal cycle. dr kuldeep verma, chief scientist of urobiologics, believes that women play an equal role in gender selection. just like there are two different types of sperm, ‘x’ and ‘y’, there are two different types of hormonal environments which alternate in every menstrual cycle. urobiologics advise couples that if they want to have a boy, they conceive in the ‘boy cycle’, and if they want to have a girl, they conceive in the ‘girl cycle’. and these tests are believed to be over 90% accurate. but, how do they work? the pregender preconception test service (for gender planning before pregnancy) dr kuldeep verma is vehement that couples do not need to play a game of chance and end up with multiple babies of the same gender. there are no ph hoaxes, no acidic or alkaline douching, no gender dieting, charts, calendars or moon theories to follow. using the pregender preconception test, couples are only required to submit mid-cycle urine samples, which can be mailed from most countries without the need for travel. urobiologics then identifies the alternating uterine hormonal environments by testing the urine samples (you cannot identify the cycle by testing the blood or saliva.) and, dr verma is so confident of the test’s success that urobiologics will refund couples double if they do not get their planned boy or girl using his program. the woman’s hormones will do everything that is needed to determine the gender of the baby. “i completed my family through preconception advice from urobiologics. i got my son last week. it is amazing that simply by conceiving in the cycles recommended by them one can get the baby they wanted. as i didn’t go for any other test, scepticism kept me occupied all the time during pregnancy; now i am a stronger believer in this technology” gloria hu, netherlands, 11.02.2012 the science behind the pregender preconception test ovulation creates two types of hormonal environments in the uterus. these environments alternate in consecutive menstrual cycles. the sperm then ‘determines’ the gender, yet the hormonal environment of the uterus in that cycle appears to ‘influence’ the expression of the baby’s sex characteristics. so, if there is a ratio of more testosterone to oestrogen in one cycle, the environment will favour the conception of a boy. if there is a ratio of more oestrogen to testosterone in the alternate cycle, the environment will favour the conception of a girl (and select the ‘x’ chromosome bearing sperm). urobiologics will then guide the couple via a conception plan on when and how they should conceive. the process of conception then ‘locks’ the environment and that the environment would stay the same until the baby is born or miscarried. urobiologics believe they can prove that the above steps work and that the result will allow for gender-specific conception to be possible naturally if one conceives in the appropriate menstrual cycle. the above diagram shows the alternating ‘boy’ and ‘girl’ cycles after testing two urine samples. if conception occurs in ‘cycle 3’, the boy phase is locked for nine months. some pregnancy test kits can detect pregnancy six days before the expected period date. however, urobiologics’ second test, the firstgender test, can detect the gender of the baby from the date of conception and there is a 90% chance that it would be a boy because conception occurred in a boy phase. the below diagram shows some examples of the process the pregender test uses to conceive the gender of choice: for more information on the pregender test, visit urobiologics’ website. the firstgender test service (for gender detection after pregnancy) dr kuldeep verma’s company uses unique technology to evaluate the gender of the baby by testing a mid-stream sample of the expecting mother’s urine (for two resting periods pooled into one bottle). the test can be administered from as early as five weeks up to the twentieth week of pregnancy, and with an expected accuracy of 95%. more information on the process used can be found on urobiologics’ website. what is the scientific basis of the early firstgender test? if the mother is carrying a boy, her urine will contain more testosterone than of a mother’s urine who is carrying a girl. through several developed procedures, urobiologics compares the sample with that of a mixed sample from several women who have delivered girls or confirmed they are carrying girls through amniocentesis or cvs test. if the sample matches, then urobiologics are reasonably confident that the baby is a girl “you ensure conception, we ensure gender” dr kuldeep verma, urobiologics more information about urobiologics urobiologics claim they are the first ever company to determine gender by testing urine and have put in thirty years of extensive work on developing unique technology for gender selection and determination. urobiologics believe they can detect gender as soon as the woman has confirmed a positive pregnancy test. no procedure can ever be 100% accurate. urobiologics believe their test results are 95% accurate as long as directions are followed for sample collection and storage carefully. urobiologics have currently filed two patent applications worldwide. if you have any more questions on the firstgender test, please visit urobiologics’ website for frequently asked questions. isn’t urobiologic’s pregender test just a natural way of creating designer babies? no, because you are not genetically modifying the baby through invasive methods; you are simply selecting the cycle in which to conceive and then letting nature take its course. this process may work well for couples who already have multiples babies of the same gender. how do i order a test? the pregender test can be ordered over the phone or through the website. urobiologics will mail the urine sample materials along with a prepaid ship-ready ups or fedex envelope so that you can mail the samples back to them. you collect two urine samples separately for two cycles near ovulation and ship both samples together. a full plan is then discussed as to which cycle you are advised to conceive, as well as how to conceive. no additional testing is required for six months. however, urobiologics do recommend to take two tests any time after six months to reposition the family planning effort. this is because undetected conception may temporarily lock the hormonal environment and disturb the sequence. if conception is a problem, urobiologics recommend customers to go for intra-uterine insemination (iui) but in an appropriate cycle. iui is a more natural alternative to ivf, as ivf involves a lot of hormonal injections and may cause an imbalance to the natural hormone set up in a particular cycle, ultimately causing low success rates. customers are offered a 10% discount (on the combined price) when buying both the pregender and firstgender test (please refer to the fee table below). customers are also offered a double refund warranty and entry into the ‘live chart’. more information on these benefits can be found on urobiologics’ website. customers can contact urobiologics by calling toll free at 1-877-he-or-she (1-877-436-7743) or direct at 313-574-7500 in the usa or through email: drverma@urobiologics.com “not only has urobiologics got extremely high success rates but dr verma is so helpful and supportive. i found out yesterday that the pre and post-gender test had worked for me when other techniques failed. dr verma guided me in which cycles to conceive to get me a girl. interestingly, i conceived in the desired cycle, and the post-con sample test also confirmed a girl. finally, after two correct boy reports by urobiologics, my ultrasound was very clearly a girl. if you are reading this, i know how desperate you are to have a baby girl/boy. please try it; you can only imagine how happy i am, i want you to experience it too.” emma hine, uk, 19.05.2011 whether you are planning for your first baby or you have boys, and you would like a daughter (or vice versa), urobiologics offers a pregender test so you can successfully conceive a baby of your desired gender. however, a caveat must be inserted here that the sex of the baby should not matter more than his/her health and well-being, and that all babies are miracles regardless of whether they end up as boys or girls! if you are planning a family would you want to know the gender of your baby before conceiving? share with us in the comments below! leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:conceptiondr kuldeep vermafertilisationfirstgender testgendergender determinationhormonal environmentnewsovapreconceptionpregenderpregender preconception testpregnantslidespermurobiologics related posts 23 weeks pregnant – babies come wi... things every family should remember when... my way or the highway 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks ... my top ten tips for travelling with tiri... sm’s birth story 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... 21 weeks pregnant – found a new jo... help my baby’s teething! all i ever wanted was to be a mum weekend box 1 – january 2014, week... what to pack in your hospital bag for la... letting baby do the work: biological nur... what books can do to improve us as peopl... 20 weeks pregnant – my second scan... 13 weeks pregnant – ultrasound scan day! what you should know before you start yo... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... 3 ways a healthy heart improves fertilit... my best friends – parenting and ra... have multiple babies of the same gender?... was that it? feeling a kick… maybe... 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... little dish review and competition (5 go... introduction – journey to getting ... buriti baby body butter review birth partners: doula or don’t ya? elder care: the options 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok