bustle women's history month without this woman, i wouldn't know what it takes to be a triple threatby tayla parx without this woman, i wouldn’t know my full potentialby lauren underwood without this woman, bobbi brown never would have pursued beautyby bobbi brown serena williams on why her mother taught her she didn't need a manby bustle editors northern ireland will now offer abortions “without conditionality” up to 12 weeks it's been an important 12 months for reproductive rights in northern ireland. in a landmark move back in october 2019, stormont voted to decriminalise abortion and have since been working to clarify the details and put a framework in place for the…by aoife hanna why you should *definitely* read 'little fires everywhere' before watching it hulu's little fires everywhere, the tv miniseries adaptation of celeste ng's 2017 novel of the same name, premiered on mar. 18, and it already has fans waiting to find out what's coming to shaker heights, ohio. if you're not familiar with the…by k.w. colyard new uk health policy enables remote access to abortion update: on march 23, the uk government overturned the ruling detailed below. please see here for our most up-to-date coverage on remote access to abortions in the uk amid the covid-19 pandemic. in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic and national…by l'oréal blackett what one air force captain learned from a career that brings her to the ends of the earth when you think about a career in the air force, it's easy to picture non-stop action and a sense of adventure that rivals the latest blockbuster to hit theaters. but when it comes to real life enlistment, how likely is that stuff to actually become…by jordan sherwood the 'one day at a time' showrunner hopes season 4 will be "medicinal" for fans a year ago it seemed like there might never be a season 4 of one day at a time. but when netflix canceled the popular series about a latinx family, the heartbreak of the cast and crew was matched by outrage — from fans, from critics, and even…by amanda whiting sponsored at acura, premium cars start with inspired engineers acura engineer sarah boylan sees how cars fit together and she’s been methodically studying the big picture ever since she was a child.explore mahalia on the women, words, & learning curves that help her make music at 21 years old, british singer-songwriter mahalia is already well versed in the music industry. counting ed sheeran among her earliest fans, the leicester-based artist signed her first record deal in her early teens, and has been honing her smooth…by el hunt chrissy teigen has no patience for donald trump's covid-19 test complaints donald trump may think that getting tested for coronavirus is painful, but one of his top critics is here to remind him that a test is nothing compared to what women go through to literally keep the human race alive. chrissy teigen reacted to donald…by jake viswanath without this woman, i wouldn't know what it takes to be a triple threat i didn't even know a career like mine could exist or what a triple threat was until i met debbie allen, who is like my second mom. i met debbie when i was around 9 years old after going to the debbie allen dance academy in texas with my best friend…by tayla parx lela loren tells us about the boldest move she made in her career at 28 in bustle’s q&a series 28, successful women describe exactly what their lives looked like when they were 28 — what they wore, where they worked, and what, if anything, they would do differently. actor lela loren, who recently joined season 2 of…by princess gabbara 33 brilliant products that make your stuff way more hygienic i have a few tendencies that could be seen as dichotomous, but none are as contradictory as my relationship with germs. on one hand, i love fermented foods, and i try to support my body's healthy microbes. but on the other, the thought of bacteria…by maria cassano the real story behind the 'dike - just do it' pride t-shirt ever wondered about the origins of extinction rebellion’s logo or how the pussyhat became synonymous with the women’s march overnight? consider this your starting point. first and foremost, protest is about people taking to the streets and…by el hunt 33 things less than $35 that make being stuck indoors way more enjoyable whether it's due to bad weather, a lingering cold, or a depleted bank account, sometimes you have to spend time indoors. luckily, amazon has a massive selection of things to make staying home more enjoyable — and you don't have to spend a lot to…by cristina sanza lana condor slammed trump's "racist words & actions" regarding the coronavirus in response to the white house's insistence on referring to covid-19 as "the chinese virus," lana condor called out president trump for being "racist" towards the asian american community in a powerful post on twitter and instagram. the president…by julia emmanuele how to celebrate mother's day 2020 during the coronavirus outbreak mother's day is fast approaching and no matter how organised you've been this year, the effects of the coronavirus pandemic might have thrown some logistical spanners in the works. and apart from logistics, it's important to be cautious when being…by aoife hanna sponsored what one air force captain learned from custom-building her perfect career united states air force captain staci a. rouse always knew she wanted to fly. “when i was younger, i asked my dad how to be an astronaut and he told me becoming a pilot should probably be the first step,” she tells bustle, laughing. once she got…by molly shea miley cyrus said she felt body-shamed after her 2013 vmas performance miley cyrus twerking on robin thicke in nude latex is an iconic image in pop culture, but it also caused some pain and insecurity for the multi-faceted superstar. miley cyrus opened up about feeling body-shamed after her infamous 2013 vmas…by jake viswanath chrissy teigen defended vanessa hudgens as she apologized for her coronavirus statements chrissy teigen knows that everyone says insensitive stuff from time to time, and she's trying to encourage forgiveness, especially during such a crazy time. chrissy teigen defended vanessa hudgens after the high school musical star came under fire…by jake viswanath where endometriosis sufferers stand with treatment options in 2020 march is endometriosis awareness month when celebrities, charities, and health professionals work to raise the profile of a disease that can be totally life altering. according to the charity endometriosis uk, 1.5 million people in the uk suffer…by alice broster reese witherspoon recalls "more than 1 incident" of being harassed as a young star the world may have first known reese witherspoon as the teenage acting prodigy in a man on the moon or the bubbly go-getter elle woods in legally blonde, but even she had to face many struggles during what seemed like surefire stardom. reese…by jake viswanath newsentertainmentbeautyfashionlifestylebookshealthwomen's history monthspread the lovevideo about usadvertisetermsprivacydmcacontact uscoupons