courses ask an expert learn & discover my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out back to entrepreneur learn & discover ask an expert courses franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map mental health how jen gotch's mental health struggles made her a better leader the founder and creative director of ban.do wants to help her team, customers, and people everywhere prioritize their own wellness. online courses enroll in online courses to get practical advice, tools and guidance to grow and scale your business. enroll now ask an expert take part in one-on-one mentor sessions as well as group conversations and big, virtual events to get inspired and learn from the best. connect now learn & discover get insight and tips you can trust from women who have fought the battles and know how to push through adversity to find success. read more learn & discover see all clothing 7 pairs of pants for every work-from-home mood from sweatpants to fancy pants that are surprisingly comfortable, we've got you covered. entrepreneur deals | 4 min read women in tech 10 women on the myths of working in stem and tech top women executives from pepsico, google, ryder, shutterstock and more get real about being women leaders in male-dominated industries. penny bauder | 8 min read career advice why your best move might be to ditch your day job for a dream job if working for someone else isn't making you as happy as you expected, it might be time to quit your 9-to-5 and start your own business. kanika tolver | 7 min read career advice smart tips for setting the pace at your new job you may not be the boss, but you are in charge of just how quickly you assimilate and how much work you take on in the early days of a new job. find out how to do it right. kanika tolver | 6 min read connect with women entrepreneur & be a part of the community. inspiration on the go follow us online courses powered by the ultimate business and brand-building program for female entrepreneurs looking to unlock multi-million dollar growth. whether you have a great idea you want to launch, or a business you’re running that you want to grow, builders program™ gives you all the business tools you need to take your business to the next level, in one place. learn more courses offered unit 1 risk-taking & entrepreneurship risk taking & entrepreneurship includes lessons on the state of women in culture and a deep dive into why women entrepreneurs have innate brand building skills. from there, we will help you take better risks with advice from founders, innovators and leaders like the greatest free climber, the first person to circumnavigate the globe and an acclaimed neuroscientist. uncover your blocks and get ready to launch to new heights personally and professionally. learn more unit 2 intelligence intelligence includes lessons on how big the market that you’re operating in is, how many competitors exist, and what trends are impacting your market. once studied comprehensively, this will give you a clear picture of what strategy to pursue and how to position your offering so that you can maximize market share. learn more unit 3 growth growth includes lessons on your business model oriented around selling to high-value customers, offering something of value, and securing a high profit margin. from there you’ll develop a number of foundational financial statements - the forecast, budget, and p&l. we’ll walk you through a simple tool that’ll help you to prioritize how to grow and where to grow so you can be efficient with your time and energy, and achieve the biggest payoff for your business. learn more unit 4 brand strategy brand strategy includes lessons on what your brand’s vision is in the world, who your target consumer is, and how you’ll position your brand. at the most basic level, “brand” signals value to consumers that gives them a reason to pay the price you’re asking. without a brand, your product is in essence a commodity. this work will help you stand out from your competition in a way that’s memorable. learn more unit 5 market activation market activation includes lessons that will help you to market to your consumers with the right messages in the right marketing channels, starting with a marketing plan, followed by partnerships and digital marketing across every online channel which we will help you master. learn more unit 6 ignite ignite includes lessons like action planning and how to put business processes in place to make sure goal setting stays a priority over time. we’ll then focus in on two key documents that help you to position your business to your teams, outside partners and to investors: the business plan, and the pitch deck. learn more all units package complete digital program the complete program includes lessons from all six units: risk-taking & entrepreneurship, intelligence, growth, brand strategy, market activation, and ignite. you’ll have all the tools you need to take your business to the next level, in one place. learn more company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter thank you for subscribing to terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account