bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr online stores powered by woocommerce great for selling online secure payment gateways provided fully customizable online stores free online store set up phone call starting at ca$18.76 ca$9.32/month* choose plan 30-day money-back guarantee* easy to use themes safe & secure online payment starter ca$9.32/mo* normally ca$18.76 select 1 online store 100 gb ssd storage storefront theme installed free ssl domain privacy + protection free setup call 1 office 365 mailbox - free 30 days plus ca$12.00/mo* normally ca$24.13 select unlimited online stores unmetered ssd storage storefront theme installed free ssl domain privacy + protection free setup call codeguard backup basic 1 office 365 mailbox - free 30 days pro ca$17.37/mo* normally ca$42.91 select unlimited online stores unmetered ssd storage storefront theme installed free ssl domain privacy + protection free setup call codeguard backup basic bluehost seo tools start 1 office 365 mailbox - free 30 days all plans include 1 free domain a great website starts with a great domain name. bluehost gives you one for free. woocommerce auto-install skip the hassle of installing and configuring woocommerce yourself. we install it for you so you can start building faster. free ssl secure your online store with a free ssl. transactions and visitor data is automatically encrypted. unmetered bandwidth grow your traffic without being throttled. your success is our #1 priority. get verified on google my business list your local business online to quickly connect with customers in your area. allow them to see your location and your hours of operation on google maps. marketing credits receive $100 for microsoft advertising and $100 for google ads when you spend your first $25 on a new microsoft advertising and google ads account. woocommerce is built for wordpress. use the power of wordpress, reliability of bluehost, and versatility of woocommerce to get your online store up and running in no time. build build an online store in minutes with instant woocommerce integration configure your online store with a wealth of woocommerce extensions choose from hundreds of woocommerce storefront designs control easily add and remove products from your online inventory quickly create coupon codes for sales and promotions on your site use a variety of payment and tax options to customize your shopping cart manage monitor your online store performance from a centralized analytics dashboard use free ssl certificate and dedicated ip to accept secure payments receive 24/7 support and services to guide website creation why choose woocommerce? woocommerce was designed specifically for wordpress, one of the most powerful and respected building platforms in use today. with the fundamentals handled by wordpress, woocommerce then takes the guesswork out of creating your online store, by handling everything from inventory management to payment methods and even your store's overall appearance. open your woocommerce store today special offer! as low as ca$9.32/month* choose plan have an expert set up your online store today every woocommerce plan comes with a free online store set up call. let us help get your online store up and running. 877-708-7750 chat faqs what is woocommerce hosting? woocommerce is a wordpress plugin that is primarily used for selling products or services online. regardless if your products are digital or physical, woocommerce makes it easy to build an online store that is customized specifically to your business needs. woocommerce also makes it easy to manage your inventory, take secure payments, manage shipping, and will even apply taxes accordingly. can i customize my woocommerce online store? absolutely. depending on what you want your e-commerce store to do or look like, you can choose from a variety of available woocommerce themes. once you've chosen a theme, you can begin to customize it within the "customizer" section of your wordpress dashboard. this will allow you to make simple changes like adding your personal logo or changing the background and font. coding knowledge is not a requirement for using woocommerce, however for users who know basic html or css, customization can be taken to a whole new level. we recommend that beginners to woocommerce choose a theme that best fits their needs and then learn how to customize it further through our knowledge base articles or community forums. as your customization skills increase, you will be excited by all the possibilities your woocommerce online store has available to leverage. why should i use woocommerce instead of shopify? woocommerce is completely free to use and is powered by a community of developers dedicated to making woocommerce as flexible and versatile as the industry needs. as the internet and online stores continue to evolve, woocommerce evolves with it. bluehost makes building a woocommerce website easy for beginners while still providing all the tools necessary for pros. woocommerce allows anyone to setup and run a professional online store in minutes. the best part is that it's all powered by wordpress so your data is all 100% owned by you. how do i get started with woocommerce hosting? bluehost makes it easy to get started with woocommerce web hosting. simply choose the hosting plan that is right for your website needs, and then create or add your existing domain. we will automatically install woocommerce on top of your wordpress website while also providing a free woocommerce ssl to keep your site and transactions secure. setup takes only a few minutes and then you can begin selecting a theme for your online store. shortly after you've selected a woocommerce theme, you can begin adding your products and payment information. call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 woocommerce hosting solutions starting at ca$9.32/month* get started × usage policies how much disk space and bandwidth is included with my plan? for packages supporting unmetered disk space or data transfer (bandwidth), we do not have defined limitations. these resources are "unmetered", meaning you are not billed according to the amount of disk space or bandwidth used. while of course these resources are not infinite, we believe our customers should have all the resources necessary to build an online presence and 99.95% of customers will have more than enough disk space and bandwidth to meet their needs. that said, we do require all customers to be fully compliant with our terms of service and utilize disk space and bandwidth in a manner consistent with the normal operation of a website. while rare, we occasionally constrain accounts utilizing more resources than should be the case in the normal operation of a personal or small business website. how do you determine "normal" operation? we regularly examine customer bandwidth and disk space utilization data in a series of statistical analyses and use the results to define "normal". although these tests vary from month to month, one thing remains constant: 99.95% of our customers fall into "normal" range. if your account's bandwidth or disk space utilization causes any concern, you will receive an email asking you to reduce usage. we strive to provide at least 48 hours notice to allow customers to make adjustments before we take any corrective action. it is very rare for a customer to exceed normal usage while managing a website. typically, customers only experience issues if they use their accounts for storage (for example large multimedia files) or file sharing. our hosting services are not intended to support these activities, and in accordance with our terms of service your disk space and bandwidth usage must be integrated into the normal operation of a website. we offer various plans that better address high bandwidth and large storage requirements. please contact us for details. what constraints exist on websites, domain names, or email? for plans or packages featuring unlimited websites, domains, or email accounts, we do not enforce any official limitations. customers are able to utilize as many of these features as they wish. that said, these are of course not infinite resources and there are inherent maximums associated with the technology powering them. for example, while email account creation is unlimited, these rely on the file storage available on the account. therefore customers need to be operating within the terms of service to ensure resources are available to fully enable email functionality. customers operating within the terms of service have yet to come up against technical boundaries for email, domains, or websites. × office 365 mailbox this plan includes 1 microsoft office 365 email essentials license, free for 30 days with the purchase of a hosting plan. your office 365 email essentials license will automatically renew monthly at the current renewal price until cancelled. you can cancel your automatic renewal at any time online or by phone. × free set up call get your online store up and running with a free 2-hour set up call with a woocommerce expert. * the promotional price is for the first term only and renews at the regular rate. * 30-day money-back guarantee does not extend to domain names. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.