bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr × free domain policy if you register a domain with bluehost when signing up for a hosting account, there is a domain fee that is non-refundable. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. regardless of the status of your hosting service, you'll be free to manage it, transfer it after any required lock periods, or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you elect to extend it. shared wordpress hosting fast, easy, and secure wordpress hosting in minutes. automatic wordpress install and updates free ssl certificate included free domain name for 1st year starting at ca$10.72 ca$5.30/month* choose plan affordable wordpress hosting secured by true wordpress experts hundreds of wordpress themes to create websites unique to you build a website in minutes with an automatic wordpress installation × usage policies how much disk space and bandwidth is included with my plan? for packages supporting unmetered disk space or data transfer (bandwidth), we do not have defined limitations. these resources are "unmetered", meaning you are not billed according to the amount of disk space or bandwidth used. while of course these resources are not infinite, we believe our customers should have all the resources necessary to build an online presence and 99.95% of customers will have more than enough disk space and bandwidth to meet their needs. that said, we do require all customers to be fully compliant with our terms of service and utilize disk space and bandwidth in a manner consistent with the normal operation of a website. while rare, we occasionally constrain accounts utilizing more resources than should be the case in the normal operation of a personal or small business website. how do you determine "normal" operation? we regularly examine customer bandwidth and disk space utilization data in a series of statistical analyses and use the results to define "normal". although these tests vary from month to month, one thing remains constant: 99.95% of our customers fall into "normal" range. if your account's bandwidth or disk space utilization causes any concern, you will receive an email asking you to reduce usage. we strive to provide at least 48 hours notice to allow customers to make adjustments before we take any corrective action. it is very rare for a customer to exceed normal usage while managing a website. typically, customers only experience issues if they use their accounts for storage (for example large multimedia files) or file sharing. our hosting services are not intended to support these activities, and in accordance with our terms of service your disk space and bandwidth usage must be integrated into the normal operation of a website. we offer various plans that better address high bandwidth and large storage requirements. please contact us for details. what constraints exist on websites, domain names, or email? for plans or packages featuring unlimited websites, domains, or email accounts, we do not enforce any official limitations. customers are able to utilize as many of these features as they wish. that said, these are of course not infinite resources and there are inherent maximums associated with the technology powering them. for example, while email account creation is unlimited, these rely on the file storage available on the account. therefore customers need to be operating within the terms of service to ensure resources are available to fully enable email functionality. customers operating within the terms of service have yet to come up against technical boundaries for email, domains, or websites. × office 365 mailbox this plan includes 1 microsoft office 365 email essentials license, free for 30 days with the purchase of a hosting plan. your office 365 email essentials license will automatically renew monthly at the current renewal price until cancelled. you can cancel your automatic renewal at any time online or by phone. basic ca$5.30/mo* normally ca$10.72 select 1 website free ssl certificate 50 gb ssd storage free domain for 1 year 5 parked domains 25 subdomains $200 marketing credit plus ca$7.98/mo* normally ca$14.74 select unlimited websites free ssl certificate unmetered ssd storage free domain for 1 year unlimited parked domains unlimited subdomains $200 marketing credit 1 office 365 mailbox - free 30 days choice plus ca$9.32/mo* normally ca$20.11 select unlimited websites free ssl certificate unmetered ssd storage free domain for 1 year unlimited parked domains unlimited subdomains $200 marketing credit codeguard basic backup 1 office 365 mailbox - free 30 days all wordpress hosting plans include automatic wordpress installation upon creation of your wordpress hosting plan, bluehost automatically installs the latest and most secure version of wordpress. microsoft office 365 available access your email anywhere with microsoft office 365. boost recognition with microsoft office email accounts branded with your domain name. free domain name for 1 year enjoy a free domain of your choosing for one year upon the creation of your wordpress hosting account. automatic wordpress updates we keep your wordpress hosting plan secure even after account creation by keeping your account up to date everyday. secure configuration of login credentials upon the creation of your wordpress hosting account, your login credentials are changed from the standard wordpress admin/password to something of your choice. get verified on google my business list your local business online to quickly connect with customers in your area. allow them to see your location and your hours of operation on google maps. recommended by wordpress.org since 2005 bluehost has been recommended by wordpress.org since 2005. by partnering with bluehost, you receive all the power of wordpress along with innovative plugins, themes, and seamless 3rd party integrations. these features are what make bluehost the best place to build, grow, and manage a beautiful wordpress website. hundreds of themes available free and premium themes are available from the moment you create your account. find the wordpress theme that best represents you and your unique talents. installation is fast and easy, and switching themes can be completed in seconds. choose plan wordpress hosting done right designed with you in mind, bluehost provides everything you need to create and manage a wordpress website. enjoy powerful website management tools, automatic wordpress installation, and 24/7 expert support all at a price that fits any budget. choose plan start with wordpress today starting at ca$10.72 ca$5.30/month* get started go further with wp pro bluehost is one of the best for wordpress. for those looking to take their wordpress site to higher levels, check out wp pro. learn more 24/7 wordpress hosting support bluehost supports over 2 millions websites worldwide. let our experts help you effectively build, grow, and manage your wordpress website. 888-401-4678 chat faqs what is wordpress? wordpress is the #1 website creation software in the world. powering over 25% of the internet, wordpress provides everything you need to create a beautiful and powerful website. built by a community of global developers, wordpress is continuously being improved and refined to provide the best functionality and performance for its users. this open source approach has made wordpress the website creation and management platform of choice for new and skilled users all over the world. why choose bluehost for wordpress? in addition to offering reliable and affordable wordpress hosting, bluehost installs wordpress automatically upon the completion of signing up for an account. you don't need to worry about finding the correct version of wordpress, bluehost always installs the latest version so you have the most recent features available for your website. bluehost has been the #1 recommended wordpress hosting provider since 2005 and we take pride in our customer service and expertise. after i purchase wordpress shared hosting, how do i get started? once you've completed your account set up, and picked a theme, your new account is automatically connected to the latest version of wordpress. simply login to your customer dashboard and find your new site waiting for you to start editing. and if you need help or would like guidance on creating, designing, or promoting your new website or blog, our team of wordpress experts are available 24/7 to help you every step of the way. why wordpress? in addition to being the most used platform for website creation, wordpress allows you to manage all of the content on your website from one place. it also has a wealth of themes, add-ons, and plugins that are easily installed as you are building your website, giving you nearly limitless options on customization. how do i get wordpress help? bluehost offers 24/7 support to assist with getting started and any other questions that may come up. however, if you require additional assistance with design, functionality, or even if you just want hands-on guidance, bluehost offers additional services like blue sky and full service website design. blue sky is perfect for anyone who wants direct access to wordpress experts skilled in design, marketing, and security practices. full service website design provides you with a team of website builders who will create a powerful wordpress website exactly to your specifications. call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 shared wordpress hosting solutions starting at ca$5.30/month* get started * the promotional price is for the first term only and renews at the regular rate. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.