bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr blue sky puts wordpress experts by your side learn how to build, grow, and maintain your new wordpress website with friendly and professional guidance every step of the way. starting at ca$38.90/month choose plan professionals are ready to assist long-term value launch your wordpress site, and keep things running smooth, with our friendly assistance. expert advice ask questions as they pop up, and get quick answers via live chat, email, and over the phone. here when it counts get help when you're in the thick of it. we're here for you every monday through friday. live wordpress support starting at ca$38.90/month put helpful wordpress assistance in your back pocket — for now, and the road ahead. blue sky basic get unstuck with fast answers and expert recommendations. ca$38.90/mo get started now on-demand ticket support account access assistance website back up assistance design guidance blue sky plus learn more wordpress skills and solve problems faster. ca$65.72/mo get started now on-demand ticket support account access assistance website back up assistance design guidance on-demand chat support blue sky pro build and maintain with advanced features, then improve as you go. ca$132.79/mo get started now on-demand ticket support account access assistance website back up assistance design guidance on-demand chat support bluehost seo tools content optimization assistance landing page optimization assistance mobile optimization assistance constant contact (500 contacts) blue sky: build together getting started with a new website can be challenging. almost as challenging as trying to grow the success of an existing website. luckily bluehost offers a hands-on service called blue sky to help you learn how to build, grow, and maintain your website so it can reach its full potential. no matter where you are in your website journey, learn more about how blue sky can take your website to new heights. × live marketing optimization talk to your blue sky agent about: content optimization assistance, landing page optimization assistance, and mobile optimization assistance. get help where it counts let us walk you through building and maintaining your website. choose the right tools customize site design grow & optimize at your service wordpress experts available monday through friday—starting at only ca$38.90/month. 855-435-1008 chat blue sky is your wordpress secret weapon skip the research, save time blue sky experts have done the heavy lifting for you. get recommendations on which wordpress themes and plugins are best for your project, and a roadmap for your site. finish what you started get past any roadblocks to launch and grow your site. use blue sky to solve unexpected problems that get in the way of building the website you want. get bigger & better blue sky reps want you to succeed. lean on their expertise to refine your seo and marketing, improve and secure your site so you can keep doing bigger things. frequently asked questions what is blue sky? blue sky support offers industry-leading wordpress expert support. if you're getting started with wordpress we help with the basics, such as selecting a theme, making simple edits or setting up a contact form. if your wordpress site is up and running, we'll help you reach its full potential. how do i get started with blue sky? as you start a wordpress site, blue sky has different ways to interact with our wordpress experts. for simple questions, blue sky lite provides email support. if your wordpress setup needs more help, blue sky pro has a wordpress expert to provide phone support, along with additional tools. get started by choosing your plan from the bluehost marketplace in your customer dashboard. why should i chose blue sky support? as a premiere wordpress setup service, our in-house wordpress developers contribute directly to the wordpress core code. we have years of experience building and hosting wordpress websites plus a team of highly-trained wordpress experts. bluehost has been recommended by wordpress.org since 2005. what's included with blue sky pro? blue sky pro provides the best in wordpress premium support. our teams help you build your site and optimize it for mobile, seo, and landing page performance. please note: while we're able to assist with optimizations related to wordpress themes and plugins, the blue sky team does not assist with custom coding (html, css, etc.). how do i contact a blue sky support agent? get quick answers via live chat, email, and over the phone depending on your plan. with a bluehost account, you can access your blue sky portal directly from your dashboard. call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 844-303-1810 international - 1-844-303-1810 blue sky support starting at ca$38.90/month get started × live marketing optimization talk to your blue sky agent about: content optimization assistance, landing page optimization assistance, and mobile optimization assistance. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.