main navigation main navigation menu wordpress.com wordpress.com icon & logo. products features resources plans & pricing log in get started menu blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise overview themes plugins google apps support news expert tips navigation menu close menu get started add a new site › sign up › log in › about plans & pricing products blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise features overview themes plugins google apps resources news support expert tips claim your corner of the internet. build a new website with a few clicks (and a big discount!). claim your 50% student discount, and apply the code at checkout for a deal on any new purchase. create your wordpress.com website, and make your voice heard. showcase your art, track your assignments, get a jumpstart on your career — all on your own site, where you’re in control instead of some algorithm. do it with free hosting, unique domains, eye-catching themes, and support from wordpress experts. note: this offer is currently available to full‑time students in the united states only. discount can only be applied towards new purchases. start your website custom domains for ad-free student websites http:// infocusphotographers.com cortadocoffeesf.com leahrand.com avayoung.blog mightyleaftearoom.com name your domain register a domain name for your student site that’s memorable and unique. already have a domain? point it to worpdress.com in a few steps. no ads and no clutter it’s your website. keep the focus on what you want. every paid plan with wordpress.com is free of unwanted advertising. custom email addresses look like a pro with an email address using your custom domain that forwards messages straight to g-suite and other email services. the features and flexibility you need in a world-class website builder budget-friendly choices find a plan that fits your needs, including extra storage space, advanced customization and premium themes. or start for free. you decide what to build start blogging, display photography, launch a business. it’s up to you. the internet’s your oyster with wordpress.com. effortless editing discover the breezy experience of the wordpress editor. it’s fast, intuitive, and constantly saves your work so you don’t lose a thing. add media with ease adding images to posts and pages is as easy as drag-and-drop. quickly create galleries or embed audio, video, documents and more. elevate your online presence grow your audience and track your progress. activate essential features for site stats, seo, social media sharing, and more. mobile and desktop apps live on your phone? update your website on the move with mobile, or go full-screen with desktop apps for ios, android, mac, windows, and linux. find a theme for any project that reflects your personality choose from hundreds of themes and customize them to your taste. build the website of your dreams without hiring a professional designer. browse all themes free to start, with 4 ways to grow. whether you want to share your ideas, start a business, or run a store, you can do it all on wordpress.com. free best for getting started $0 for life start with free create a beautiful, simple website in minutes. free best for getting started $0 for life start with free create a beautiful, simple website in minutes. personal best for personal use $5 per month, billed yearly start with personal add some personality to your website with a custom domain and access to 24/7 support. popular premium best for freelancers $8 per month, billed yearly start with premium build a unique site with advanced design tools, custom css, and google analytics support. business best for small businesses $25 per month, billed yearly start with business power your business with custom plugins & themes, 200 gb storage, and live support. ecommerce best for online stores $45 per month, billed yearly start with ecommerce open your online store with a powerful, flexible platform designed to grow with you. compare our plans › need an enterprise solution? wordpress vip provides everything you need to build and run best-in-class customer experiences at scale. plans start at $1,700/month.learn more › contact us to learn more. tell us about your goals and needs and a representative will contact you shortly. ready to get started? tell us about your needs. thank you for contacting us. we’ll be in touch with you shortly. first name * last name * work email * phone number company title/position industry message send go back to wordpress.com you asked, we answered! can i create a website in another language? absolutely. you can change your site language, which is the language your readers will experience at your site. you can also change the language you see while working on your site in the dashboard. the language you write on your website is up to you! will i have to pay for my custom domain? a free subdomain comes with your account. if you’d like a custom domain, you can add one to your site with the purchase of any wordpress.com plan. can i get an email account? email forwarding is included in a wordpress.com plan, and full email hosting is available through our partner g suite. will i be able to sell online? you can sell individual items on your site using your paypal account. for more opportunities to monetize, upgrade to the wordpress.com premium plan to sell products and services using the simple payment button. for more ecommerce features, like an online store, consider starting with a wordpress.com business plan. can i import content from another service? it is possible to import your blog content from a variety of other blogging platforms, including blogger, livejournal, movable type, tumblr, wix, typepad, xanga, and more. you can also import your content from a self-hosted wordpress site. where can i learn more? please visit our support site for more answers. join the network serving more than 20 billion pageviews a month start your website bottom navigation menu themes features blog stats vip terms of service privacy policy language: en an automattic mambo