skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us wordpress.com and wordpress.org for blogs (free vs. self-hosted) lauren mcmanus updated: 1/15/20 • comments: 30 home » create and go blog » blog design » wordpress.com and wordpress.org for blogs (free vs. self-hosted) disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin56 shares56 getting started with a brand new blog can seem like an overwhelming process at first. you finally begin to understand that wordpress is the best blog platform to start on, but now you see there are a couple of options… wordpress.com vs. wordpress.org table of contents close open wordpress.org (self-hosted) wordpress.com (free version with limitations) is it okay to start off with a free blog? how to start the right way what’s the difference anyway? in short, the difference between wordpress.com and wordpress.org is how your blog is hosted. let’s us explain… wordpress.org (self-hosted) if your blog is self-hosted (with a company like bluehost), you will use wordpress.org with your blog. in this case, you will pay for your blog hosting and own your domain name. we love bluehost for a variety of reasons, but one of which is because it comes with a free domain name. owning your domain name means that no one else can use it but you. when you hear awesome things about how great wordpress is, peeps are talking about wordpress.org, which has a lot more features than wordpress.com. it’s also free to use when you have a domain name and blog hosting. some of the top reasons why you should go with wordpress.org: access to plugins, applications, and other extensions for your blog more control over your blog and content ability to monetize your site with ads (free version does not allow this) google analytics can be integrated to track your website visitors and stats. more customizability over your blog design with both free and paid themes option to create an online store and monetize by selling products the only downside is of course that you have to pay for hosting for your blog, which is generally one of your biggest costs for getting started. we’ve worked out a deal with bluehost to get our subscribers a discount on their hosting plan – as low as $2.75/month depending on what plan you choose. yes, it sucks to pay it all upfront, but compare this to other hosting companies that allow you to pay on a monthly basis but sometimes charge as much as $11.95/month! guys, that’s four times the cost of bluehost. $2.75 per month create and go rating start with bluehost open you’re only going to end up paying a fortune if you don’t make the upfront investment. plus, it ensures that you are making a commitment to your blog and locking in a low price for your contract term! if you are planning on turning your blog into a business, this is the only way to go. next, let’s move on to the freebie version, wordpress.com. wordpress.com (free version with limitations) wordpress.com is the free version, but this does come with some caveats. free = limited and is not always (or usually) better in the blogging world. there are a few different options when it comes to using wordpress.com. they have both free and paid plans, with the paid plans have different costs and different options (from personal all the way to business). wordpress.com is better suited for people wanting a hobby blog that aren’t interested in monetizing it. if you love writing and you just want to have a creative outlet to share your thoughts, this is probably for you. if you want to monetize your blog and turn it into a business, wordpress.org is the better option. here are some of the reasons why we feel that you should not start with a free wordpress site: only allowed up to 3gb of space until you have to upgrade to a paid plan you cannot monetize with ads, which is the way that most new bloggers monetize first — but they still put ads all over your website. you just don’t earn any money from them. (yikes…) can’t upload any plugins, which help you design your blog, collect emails, add social media icons, and more. can’t upload a customizable theme to help you design your blog (only use the limited options that wordpress provides) your site can be deleted at any time if wordpress feels that you have violated their terms of service for any reason. — you do not own your domain name. because you don’t own your domain name, you will be forced to have .wordpress.com in your blog domain. for example, we own the domain and blog, createandgo.com. if we opted for the free version of wordpress, our website would be www.createandgo.wordpress.com. we wouldn’t own the domain name, which means that if we chose to blog with a free site for a few months before upgrading, someone else could purchase the domain name createandgo.com and we would no longer be able to use it. as you can see from the list above, your use of your wordpress.com blog will be very limited. that is why it’s best for hobby bloggers. is it okay to start off with a free blog? we often get asked if it’s okay to start off with a free wordpress blog to test the waters and decide if it’s right for you and then upgrade at a later point. the answer is that’s fine if that’s what you want to do. you’re going to create more of a hassle to transfer your blog over to a self-hosted version at some point. you should also make sure to purchase your desired domain name regardless of whether you pay for hosting because if you don’t, someone could take it. most people that end up starting with the free version end up abandoning it or very quickly decide that it isn’t going to do the job and upgrade to the paid version. we personally feel that the only way to get started is to dive in and invest in yourself and this new business. blogging is no different than any other business and has start up costs. it deserves time, attention, and some initial costs to get started on the right foot! how to start the right way if you feel like you want to really give blogging a real shot, starting with bluehost + wordpress.org is the way to go! there are a few different hosting options out there, but bluehost is one of the best in the biz and for good reason. read this next: how to start a blog (on wordpress) step-by-step guide if you found this article on wordpress.com and wordpress.org for blogs or have any questions, please feel free to leave them in the comment section below! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin56 shares56 about lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. read this next 17 best wordpress plugins for blogs – 2020 edition there are literally thousands of wordpress plugins on the market and they can be a huge help when it comes to the customization and optimization of your blog. plugins can help to improve all kinds of different elements of your blog, including design, site speed, traffic, monetization, and more. but it’s important to have only […] keep reading > similar articles blog design 9 amazing blog ideas and topics (perfect for 2020) 4 best wordpress blog themes for beginners (both free and paid) how to write a blog post in wordpress and publish it transfer a free blog to wordpress.org (self-hosted) in 5 steps see all blog posts 30 leave a reply 14 comment threads 16 thread replies 0 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 19 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest tammy hi lauren, i’m really turning into a fan of guys. love the information that’s delivered. i bought my domain name through hover and i had already bought the business plan through wordpress.com. should i transfer my domain name over to bluehost? i really wish i had found you guys before i bought wordpress.com. what is the difference in what i have now vs wordpress.org and bluehost? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 14 days ago admin alex and lauren hey tammy. we always recommend that you pay for hosting as it will give you more freedom to do what you want with your website, including monetization. we recommend bluehost for beginners, but any paid hosting service is better than free 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 13 days ago guest ariana this was so helpful!! i was logging into .com and i kept getting mad that my website wasn’t there but after going into .org i see that it is there and it makes so much more sense now. i have a bluehost and wordpress combo. do i still have to download wordpress from the .org website? or do i just login through bluehost always. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren hey ariana, you can log in from the bluehost site or by adding /wp-admin to the end of your url you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest michaela m i’m confused. i signed up just like this but it automatically took me to wordpress.com from bluehost. it never gave me the option for wordpress.org. i paid for the 36th month plan just like your video instructed. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren when we talk about wordpress.com and wordpress.org, we are referring to hosting. but wordpress is also a platform. when you host with bluehost you have the option to download the wordpress platform. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest kelly how can i find out if someone is already using my name and idea before i sign-up for a .org? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago admin alex and lauren hey, kelly. when you get to the point where you are choosing your domain name through the hosting company or other domain name website, it will tell you if the name is already taken. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago guest christian j gaitskill if you’ve already had a .com site for a while, (it’s horribly neglected) can it be transferred over to a .org site later?? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey, christian. absolutely! the article above walks you through the process! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest christian j gaitskill thanks! that what i get for just skimming 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest frederick goff so i accidentally started with a wordpress.com site instead of buying hosting. i didnt know the diffference. i also paid for wordpress.com premium. can i monetize wordpress.com premium version? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest fred also, i was under the impression that i own the domain. if i need to pay for hosting again i will most likely buy hosting from one of the affiliate offers since it is 1$ cheaper through you guys. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren you’re okay as long as you own your own domain name and have a premium hosting service! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest frederick goff thank you guys for being so genuine! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey, frederick! yes, absolutely! you’ll be fine as long as you pay for a premium hosting service and own your own domain name! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest vannessa tenang thank you so much for all the information above. it’s really help. i’m currently planning to start blogging activities, but was unsure which site should i used. again, thank you. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest de-tale i just spent 3 – 4 days setting up wordpress.com :/ well, i haven’t published anything yet but i have written a lot in a few drafts which i can use. i’m going to make an account on wordpress.org my plan is to start free blogging, and if i see that it gets any attention, i’m going to invest money into it. if anyone steals my domain, i have a backup name. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren that’s a great idea! good luck! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest kerri happy sunday and trying to adjust to daylight savings (at least on the east coast). i just took my first swan dive in to setting up my blog using your link. i am using a .com not a .org but have upgraded to all the bells and whistles. does it mean that i can not monetize my blog if i’m a .com or was that just related to using the free option? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren i believe it’s just related to the free version! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest wumbei trust me you guys are really amazing. i had zero knowledge about how to start a blog but through your articles and videos i have been able to create a blog. am so happy about that because it saved me thousands of dollars i would have spent on a professional to do same for me. thank you duo so much. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren congrats on getting started!! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest kim a & l—i want to monetize my blog and i have had a wp premium and own my domain. currently, wp is hosting my site and i am so confused as to why i would want to use another host other than the mothership? i have not made any progress for at least one year but i am making 2018 my launch year….help! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey, kim! not all hosting companies were created equal. prices for hosting vary and some are known for having far better hosting service and customer service than others. for example, we’ve had all sorts of problems with siteground and had to leave their company after our website kept losing connection repeatedly. we recommend bluehost personally because they have incredible service and customer service and because it’s what we personally use on our two blogs and various other websites. but if you’re happy with your current host, there is no need to switch! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest hannah this is really informative! i have a free plan for my wordpress blog and have been trying to figure out how to go about attaining a domain name for it. i started off with a free platform a couple of years ago to see how it would go, but have recently wanted to look into monetizing it. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren glad that you found it helpful, hannah! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest nina loren great information! thank you both !! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest lawrence abiamuwe pls how can u help me to start my blog, & which of hosting site will be good for someone like me in nigeria, africa. thank u you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey, lawrence. we recommend bluehost, but i’m not sure if they provide service to nigeria or not. i would look for more information on their website to see! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents wordpress.org (self-hosted) wordpress.com (free version with limitations) is it okay to start off with a free blog? how to start the right way footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz