categories tutorials beginners guide wordpress news wordpress security best wordpress plugins wordpress themes product reviews wp tips & tricks guides start a blog make a website wordpress hosting themes hosting kinsta flywheel wpengine siteground a2 hosting coupons wpengine siteground hostgator a2 hosting product reviews wp engine vs wpx hosting: a comparison with speed tests march 20, 2020 john hughes leave a comment choosing the right hosting provider is one of the most important decisions you’ll make regarding your wordpress site. however, with so many promoting fast performance and unmatched support, how do you decide which will offer you the greatest value? if you’re like many website owners, speed is likely a top priority. so it makes sense to consider two of the…. continue reading product reviews optimizepress review – the ultimate wordpress landing page builder march 10, 2020 kevin muldoon 15 comments optimizepress is an advanced marketing wordpress plugin that can be used to create professional landing pages, sales pages, sales funnels, membership websites, online courses, event pages and more. hundreds of beautiful pre-made templates are available in optimizepress to simplify the task of building pages and websites and every layout can be customised using a user-friendly drag and drop visual editor….. continue reading product reviews flywheel managed wordpress hosting review: it’s like a design party on the internet february 22, 2020 daryn collier 8 comments as the popularity of wordpress websites continues to rise, there have been an increasing number of companies, both new and existing, who have decided to step into the arena of managed wordpress hosting. for some companies, it’s been a case of adding new services to an existing repertoire, and for others, it’s has been a case of reinventing the wheel….. continue reading best wordpress plugins 6 best wordpress landing page plugins compared + recommendations (2020) february 17, 2020 dev sharma 18 comments searching for the best wordpress landing page plugin to help you build some high-converting pages? the days of needing to hire a designer/developer for every landing page are gone. now, you can build your own landing pages using simple visual, drag-and-drop builders. but what’s the best wordpress landing page plugin for your specific situation? that’s what i’ll try to help…. continue reading wordpress tutorials what is wordpress? – a beginner’s guide february 16, 2020 kevin muldoon leave a comment wordpress is an application that allows you to easily build websites and publish content online. it was launched back in 2003 and has since grown to become the most popular website building platform in the world. the software is released under the gnu public license, which means it is free to download and free to use. what attracts people to…. continue reading best wordpress plugins 11 best contact form plugins for wordpress in 2020 february 10, 2020 brenda barron 35 comments when a customer arrives at your (or your client’s) website to figure out how to contact the company, what do they find? they may stumble upon a live chatbox in the bottom corner of the site or a phone number to call. while these are wonderful customer support solutions, it’s important to provide multiple avenues for customers to get in…. continue reading wordpress tutorials how to disable and remove old post revisions in wordpress february 6, 2020 john hughes 14 comments occasionally updating or revising a post on your wordpress site isn’t a time-consuming task. it also doesn’t take up a lot of space. however, over time, revisions do start to add up and can eventually take up a considerable amount of space on your database. whether you’re in a pursuit to free up some much-needed space or prevent the matter…. continue reading product reviews thrive themes review: a look at the full membership february 3, 2020 colin newcomer leave a comment if you’re an affiliate marketer who uses wordpress, there’s a good chance you’ve heard about thrive themes. in case you’re not familiar, thrive themes’ unique selling proposition is that they make “conversion focused’ wordpress themes and plugins. in my thrive themes review, i’ll tell you more about just what that means, as well as everything that you get when you…. continue reading wordpress tips & tricks how to fix ‘missing a temporary folder’ wordpress error january 27, 2020 editorial staff leave a comment the ‘missing a temporary folder’ error is one of the most frustrating wordpress issues that can disrupt your entire website development and user experience. thankfully, there’s a simple fix for this error. this error will prevent you from uploading any file in wordpress, which means you won’t be able to upload any images or install any plugins and themes. however,…. continue reading product reviews kinsta review: real test data + my likes and dislikes january 20, 2020 colin newcomer 2 comments kinsta is a performance-oriented managed wordpress host that’s powered by google cloud platform, which is the same hardware running google’s own products (maybe you’ve heard of google?). in the past, kinsta was almost exclusively a premium host, with prices starting at $100. that’s changed now, though. beginning in november 2017, kinsta completely relaunched with an all-new pricing plan that starts at…. continue reading 1 2 3 … 37 next our newsletter get awesome content delivered straight to your inbox. the best of wpkube some of the best content we have published so far. beginner guides & reviews 1how to start a wordpress blog (step by step guide) 2how to install wordpress - the complete guide 39 best options for managed wordpress hosting compared 4the 7 best wordpress hosting providers for 2020 compared 5top 9 landing page plugins for wordpress (2019) 611 of the best list building plugins for wordpress in 2020 7how to fix the 500 internal server error on your wordpress website 8wp beaver builder review: build wordpress sites instantly 9what is a gravatar and why you should get one 10thrive themes review: a look at the full membership 117 best wordpress migration plugins reviewed and compared 12optimizepress review: create landing pages with ease 13how to make a website: complete beginner's guide 14wordpress.com vs wordpress.org: which is best for me? 15top 22 best free stock photo resources for your site 1617 of the best google fonts (and how to use them in wordpress) 17lifterlms review: deliver online courses with wordpress 18how to fix '503 service unavailable' wordpress error 1911 best contact form plugins for wordpress in 2020 20how to use backupbuddy – the best backup solution for wp?? 2115 best 'hidden gem' wordpress themes for 2019 22how to add a custom logo to your wordpress site 23kinsta review: real test data + my likes and dislikes 24how to fix error establishing a database connection in wordpress 25thrive architect review 2020 – best landing page plugin for wordpress! exclusive deals flywheel elegant themes coupon wpengine coupon siteground wpx hosting: 50% off save 50% on wpx hosting using our exclusive coupon code. get this deal (our in-depth review) featured in about wpkube wpkube is an online wordpress resource which focuses on wordpress tutorials, how-to’s, guides, plugins, news, and more. we aim to provide the most comprehensive beginner’s guides to anything about wordpress — from installing plugins, themes, automated installs and setups, to creating and setting up pages for your website. we have over 500+ tutorials, guides, product reviews, tips, and tricks about wordpress. founded by devesh sharma, the main goal of this site is to provide useful information on anything and everything wordpress. useful links behind the scenes beginner guides wordpress hosting woocommerce themes meridianthemes exclusive wordpress deals view all guides » reviews wpengine 33% off thrive leads flywheel 33% off divi builder 20% off siteground 70% off elegant themes reviews » deals inmotion hosting siteground coupon liquidweb coupon wpengine coupon a2 hosting more deals » © copyright 2020 wpkube ® all rights reserved. about contact site terms disclosure privacy policy