wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » opinion » wordpress vs. medium – which one is better? (pros and cons) wordpress vs. medium – which one is better? (pros and cons) last updated on september 24th, 2017 by editorial staff 454 shares share tweet share pin we are often asked by users why they should use wordpress instead of other free blogging services like blogger, ghost, tumblr, etc? medium is a fast growing free blogging platform that allows anyone to create stories and have their own personal space on the web. in this article, we will compare wordpress vs medium with the pros and cons of each platforms. important: please note that this comparison is between self-hosted wordpress.org sites and medium, not wordpress.com vs medium. please see our guide on the difference between self-hosted wordpress.org vs wordpress.com. 1. ownership of your content medium is a free online community where anyone can share their stories. it is easy to use, reliable, and has built-in social networking features. however, you do not own medium. it is owned by ‘a medium corporation’, and they can decide to shut it down, announce new pricing plans, or cancel your account at anytime. on the other hand, wordpress allows you to own your own content. since you host your own website, you have full control over your data and who you share it with. 2. growing into your own brand when you are using medium, you are promoting their brand along with your stories. you don’t get paid for that. if you are not a famous author, chances are that medium users would remember reading a story on medium without even remembering your name. medium is also a network which means content from other authors often get displayed as next stories below your own story. taking your users away to read articles by other brands and authors. on wordpress, you have full control on how you want to promote your brand. as your site grows in popularity, you alone decide how to capitalize on your content and brand recognition. your content and ideas are recognized by your name alone. since you have full control of your wordpress site, you can do a lot more to increase the time users spend on your site. 3. design possibilities medium allows you to choose a layout for your publication. you add your own logo, background color, or image to the header. for layout you can choose grid or stream based layout. this drag and drop editor is very easy to use and offers multiple customization options. however, still your publications appearance is limited to the choices available in medium. you cannot choose your own design and layout for your website. on the other hand, there are thousands of free and paid wordpress themes available. these themes are designed by professionals with innovative designs and unlimited customization options. wordpress gives you the flexibility to build a site that looks uniquely yours. if you can spend a little more, then you can hire designers and developers to create any kind of website imaginable. 4. freedom to move medium allows you to export your data in html format. this makes it difficult to export your data into other platforms like wordpress. responses and likes on your articles cannot be exported. setting up redirects from medium to wordpress is nearly impossible. even if you are using a custom domain on medium, you will still have to manually setup a redirect for each story on your new platform. as an open source platform, wordpress gives you freedom to move all your content. you can import/export your data from wordpress using importer plugins. you can also import/export users and comments. wordpress also comes with amazing backup plugins that allow you to restore and migrate your site to a new host or even a new domain name. 5. support options medium comes with extensive documentation and a ticket based support system. currently, support is free for all users. answers are provided by medium staff and their response time depends on the number of support requests they have in pending. wordpress is a community driven project. it powers more than 26% of all websites on the internet. free community support is available through wordpress.org website. (see: why is wordpress free?) apart from that, you will find wordpress support on countless third-party platforms like stackexchange, youtube, sitepoint, etc. see our guide on how to properly ask for wordpress support and get it. wpbeginner itself is the largest wordpress resource site for beginners. we have hundreds of how-tos, tutorials, videos, and step by step guides to create any kind of website with wordpress. see our guide on how to make the most out of free wpbeginner resources. 6. security medium is a fully hosted platform, which means you don’t need to worry about the software. your content is served by highly secure medium servers. your private information is kept secure using the industry standard security measures. wordpress is a self hosted platform. this means that you are responsible for safety and security of your website. wordpress is well-known for its quick response to security issues with immediate updates that are automatically installed on millions of wordpress sites. at wpbeginner, we use sucuri to protect our site against malicious attacks. take a look at how sucuri helped us block 450,000 of attacks in 3 months. 7. future medium is a private company owned by ‘a medium corporation’. currently, the company has limited monetization options offered by partnerships with select brands for fewer publishers. we don’t know for sure what the future holds for medium. it can survive and make money, or it may disappear like dozens of other free content hosting services before it. wordpress is an open source project, managed by a community of thousands of independent developers and users. wordpress foundation protects the legal freedoms of wordpress which ensures that the project will continue even if core developers leave the project. it has been around for more than 13 years and has grown into the largest content management system in the world. it is safe to say that wordpress is going to be around for years to come. for more details, see our guide on who owns wordpress and how does wordpress make money? ready to get started with wordpress? follow our step by step guide on how to start a wordpress blog. we hope this article helped you compare the pros and cons of wordpress vs medium. you may also want to see our guides on the most common misconceptions about wordpress and why is wordpress free? if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 454 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 8 commentsleave a reply allan seabrook says: aug 2, 2018 at 12:45 pm hello, thanks for your article which answers many of my questions on ‘why medium?’ perhaps you could also help me to understand why seasoned writers like jeff goins would use medium as well as their personal website blogs, often to post the same articles. i’m puzzled about this. thanks! reply hussainart says: may 10, 2018 at 1:35 pm well, much of all said here was convincing but the article was definitely biased. should’ve done a more professional approach in differentiating them. wordpress may not have many cons, but medium does have a lot of pros. plus it’s new (and gorgeous), may be it will take over the rest? may be not. hm. reply mainul kabir aion says: sep 24, 2017 at 2:33 am hi there, thank you for this awesome post. i was wondering where is the 7th step? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 24, 2017 at 10:11 pm hey mainul, thank you for notifying us we have fixed it. reply tony b says: aug 11, 2016 at 2:56 am it’s a no brainer, if you want to leverage your brand it must be on your own piece of interweb. full control means full flexibility. wordpress is what i’d recommend for most solopreneurs wanting to carve a piece of the pie, be it for hobby or business. medium is a ‘nice looking’ platform, but what’s the usp? reply tyler says: aug 10, 2016 at 9:15 am i guess to me medium is nothing new. i tried it out and i can’t figure out what all the buzz is about. plus, they are paying big brands to use their platform to make them seem more successful. reply awontis says: aug 10, 2016 at 7:00 am we will always recommend wordpress due to the wide spectrum of possibilities with formating text, pictures, and simple usage. reply sergiu poenaru says: aug 10, 2016 at 3:42 am worst case scenario, if medium falls down, there will be a syed to create a migration plugin from medium to wp. problem solved. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) visual composer coupon get 20% off on visual composer wordpress page builder plugin. 7theme coupon get 10% off on premium wordpress themes by 7theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.