wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials best wordpress tutorials wpbeginner wordpress tutorials allow you to extend the power of wordpress. our step by step wordpress tutorials are easy to understand and follows the wordpress best practices. don't waste your time buying books that cover just the basics. these wordpress tutorials contain real-life examples, tips, and hacks that allows you to learn wordpress faster. how to fix wordpress login page refreshing and redirecting issue posted on march 10th, 2020 by editorial staff we often get messages from our users that their wordpress login page keeps refreshing and redirecting. this locks them out of the wordpress admin area, and they are unable to work on their website. login issues can be caused by various different errors such as… read more » how to create a separate page for blog posts in wordpress posted on march 3rd, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to create a separate page for blog posts in wordpress? by default, wordpress displays your blog posts on the homepage. however, if you are making a business website or simply want to customize your homepage, then you may want a separate page… read more » how to use cookie retargeting in wordpress to show custom on-site messages posted on march 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to use cookie retargeting in wordpress? cookie retargeting is the secret tool already used by many of the most popular websites. it allows you to show custom on-site messages to your users based on their past behavior which helps you boost sales.… read more » how to create a contract agreement form with digital signatures in wordpress posted on february 24th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to add a contract agreement form to your wordpress website that people can e-sign? typically to get contracts signed, you either have to manually print / scan the signature, or pay for an expensive third-party e-sign service. wouldn’t it be nice if… read more » how to create custom post types in wordpress posted on february 18th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to learn how to easily create custom post types in wordpress? custom post types transform a wordpress site from a blogging platform into a powerful content management system (cms). basically, they allow you to go beyond posts and pages by creating different… read more » how to add google optimize in wordpress (2 easy methods) posted on february 10th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking to add google optimize on your wordpress site? google optimize is a free tool by google that helps website owners optimize their sites by running a/b split tests. this allows you to compare two versions of a page and see which one… read more » how to enable author tracking in wordpress posted on january 27th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to enable author tracking on your wordpress website? if you run a multi-author wordpress site, then you’re probably wondering which of your authors write the most popular posts. in this article, we’ll share how to enable author tracking in wordpress, so you… read more » how to make a great volunteer application form in wordpress posted on january 23rd, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to add a volunteer application form to your organization’s wordpress website? if you’re one of the people managing applications, you might currently be spending a lot of time going back and forth by business email or even handling paper forms. wouldn’t it… read more » how to create a coupon popup in wordpress (step by step) posted on january 20th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to create a coupon popup in wordpress? coupon popups are a great way to convert your website visitors into paying customers. there are several different ways to create and display coupon popups. however, showing the coupon at precise timing makes a huge… read more » how to add wholesale pricing in woocommerce (step by step) posted on january 15th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to setup wholesale pricing in woocommerce for bulk purchases and wholesale buyers? by default, woocommerce only allows you to set normal pricing for a product. in this article, we will show you how to easily setup woocommerce wholesale pricing for customers who… read more » 1 2 3 … 53 » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.