skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download wordpress seo plugin – rank math by rank math details reviews installation support development description seo plugin for wordpress ★★★★★ seo is the most consistent source of traffic for any website. we created rank math, a wordpress seo plugin, to help every website owner get access to the seo tools they need to improve their seo and attract more traffic to their website. try the demo features | why choose rank math? | compare | screenshots | benefits seo might be the best and most consistent source of traffic for one’s website, but it’s not without its quirks. the constant process of optimizing your posts can sometimes take more time than actually writing the content. if you always feel that you can do more on the seo front for your website but don’t have the time, *then rank math is what you’re looking for. its host of intelligent features brings top seo capabilities in your hands that were previously out of reach. the smart automation features give you the power of an entire seo team with just a few clicks. a well thought out design, powerful features, and years of development by the mythemeshop squad make rank math a game-changing seo plugin that will level the seo playing field in your favor. rank math beats the competition with hands tied behind its back. see the features which are exclusive to rank math seo plugin and to understand why rank math is possibly the best seo plugin for wordpress. setup wizard (easy to follow) rank math practically configures itself. rank math features a step-by-step installation and configuration wizard that sets up seo for wordpress perfectly. google schema markup aka rich snippets integrated configuring google schema markup, aka rich snippets, is now easy, thanks to rank math. with support for 13+ types of schema markups, aka rich snippets, including the rating schema, you’ll be able to optimize your posts in just a few clicks. it also includes the faq schema aka faqpage schema block in the plugin. optimize unlimited keywords unlike other plugins, rank math lets you optimize your posts for unlimited focus keywords per post. (5 by default. increase by adding this filter) google search console integration rank math saves you a ton of time by integrating with google search console and displaying important information about your website right inside wordpress. google keyword ranking with rank math seo plugin, you can track your keyword rankings in google. optimal settings pre-selected configuring an seo plugin takes time, and can be confusing. rank math saves you the trouble with its optimal default settings, which are ideal for most websites, and if needed, can be changed. lsi keyword tool integrated rank math’s integrated lsi keyword tool gives you multiple keyword variations of your focus keyword, which helps you attract more traffic to your posts. add overlay icons on social images rank math makes social thumbnails click magnets by giving you the option of overlaying a gif or a video icon on the thumbnail. advanced seo analysis tool with just a single click, rank math can perform an seo audit of your website. 34 detailed seo tests rank math is designed to completely supercharge your website’s seo with its 34 detailed seo tests. module based system rank math has been designed with a module-based system, each of which can be enabled or disabled as per your needs, giving you extra speed and control. smart redirection manager rank math’s built-in smart redirection manager will help you create, manage, delete, enable, or disable redirects at scale. local business seo rank math is designed to be used by global websites and local websites alike. with its local seo features, local sites can stand out in the serps and attract more traffic. seo optimized breadcrumbs rank math can display seo optimized breadcrumbs on all websites, even if the theme doesn’t support schema.org coding. 404 monitor rank math has a built-in 404 error monitor that helps you find and resolve 404 errors for better user experience. deep content analysis tests on-page seo is no longer a mystery with rank math’s deep content analysis and precise seo recommendations. internal linking suggestions rank math intelligently suggests other posts from your website for internal linking from your current posts, improving the chances of ranking higher in the serps. role manager even if you have multiple employees manage your website, you can precisely control what each of them has to access to in rank math with its role manager. multisite ready whether you run a single wordpress website or an entire network of sites – we are ready for you. rank math fully supports the wordpress multiuser project (wpmu). and only 30k lines of code compared to over 50k in other plugins. even with significantly more features than other plugins, rank math still consists of just 30 thousand lines of code. why is rank math such a game-changer? auto configuration — all you have to do is set a few options, and rank math will configure itself perfectly for your website. super fast seo plugin — even after packing so many features, rank math has a negligible load on your server. new seo analyzer — rank math’s built-in seo analysis will give you seo recommendations that you’d normally spend hundreds of dollars to get. elementor seo – deep integration with the elementor page builder. now, you don’t need to go back and forth between tabs to configure your page’s seo. everything related to seo for elementor can be configured in the visual editor. optimize unlimited keywords at once — you can optimize your post for up to 5 different keywords by default with the rank math plugin and can use a filter to optimize for unlimited keywords. 1-click import from yoast — with a single click of your mouse, rank math can import all your settings from yoast seo to itself. the transfer is instant, and you don’t lose any serp rankings as a result. 1-click import from aio seo — rank math can also import all your settings from aio seo in a single click. the transfer is instant, and you don’t lose any serp rankings as a result. 1-click import from all in one schema rich snippets — rank math can also import all of aio’s rich snippet settings in a few clicks, which help preserve your rich rankings when moving to rank math. 1-click import from seopress seo — with a single click of your mouse, rank math can import all your settings from seopress & seopress pro seo plugin to itself. the transfer is instant, and you don’t lose any serp rankings as a result. 1-click import from redirection — moving all your redirects shouldn’t be a hassle. that’s why we have made importing redirections from the popular redirection plugin as simple as clicking a button. google keyword suggestion — when deciding on focus keywords, rank math can help you discover more keywords by pulling in keyword suggestions from google. who can benefit from rank math? rank math seo plugin is perfect for: ✔ bloggers ✔ ecommerce store owners ✔ niche sites ✔ businesses ✔ local businesses ✔ startups ✔ the real estate ✔ artists & photographers ✔ the solution offerer ✔ directories ✔ or any wordpress website take a sneak peek into rank math’s features detailed setup tutorial list of best rank math seo features clean, & simple user interface optimal settings pre-selected simple setup wizard compatibility check auto canonical urls lsi keyword tool integrated google search console integration google keyword ranking import other plugin settings 1 click import from yoast seo plugin 1 click import from aio seo 1 click import from all in one schema rich snippets 1 click import from seopress 1 click import from redirection plugin role manager acf support amp ready bbpress & buddypress modules google schema markup integrated article rich snippet review rich snippet book rich snippet course rich snippet event rich snippet job posting rich snippet local business rich snippet 193 local business types music rich snippet person rich snippet product rich snippet recipe rich snippet restaurant rich snippet service rich snippet software application rich snippet video rich snippet social media optimization add overlay icons on social images default opengraph thumbnail auto facebook open graph facebook authorship facebook open graph for homepage automatic twitter meta cards twitter card for homepage default twitter card type social previews more website verification options google+ page url for serps linkedin page url for serps instagram page url for serps youtube page url for serps pinterest page url for serps soundcloud page url for serps tumblr page url for serps myspace page url for serps add knowledge graph represent site as a person represent site as a company set a site logo advanced seo analysis tool 34 detailed seo tests seo analysis score automated image seo powerful post optimization add seo meta box to all post types bulk edit titles & descriptions post preview on google content analysis control seo for single pages control the title control meta description auto add additional meta data control robots meta choose a primary category single post/page optimization focus keyword google keyword suggestion optimize unlimited keywords (5 by default) choose pillar posts & pages internal linking suggestions capitalize titles seo failed tests seo warnings xml sitemap (new!) module based system choose any separator character modify global meta search engine verification tools bing site verification baidu site verification alexa site verification yandex site verification google site verification pinterest site verification norton safe web site verification advanced redirection manager smart & automatic post redirects 301 redirection type 302 redirection type 307 redirection type 410 redirection type 451 redirection type support for regex debug redirections simple 404 monitor advanced 404 monitor advanced seo breadcrumbs auto show seo breadcrumbs advanced link options nofollow all external image links nofollow all external links open external links in new tab/window redirect attachments to parent strip category base remove stopwords from permalinks ping search engines local seo optimization contact info shortcode deep support for woocommerce seo compatible for edd seo only 30k lines of code psr-4 coding standards (wherever possible) optimize different archives optimize author archive pages optimize date archive pages optimize archive pages .htaccess editor robots.txt editor import/export settings import/export redirections add content before the rss feed add content after the rss feed detailed documentation contextual help bloggers are raving about us rank math review – why i ditched yoast for rank math rank math on product hunt rank math seo plugin review from an seo consultant 9 reasons why i love rank math seo over yoast & all in one seo rank math reviews connect with the team and seo experts join facebook group community: the purpose of this facebook group is to have a collective place where the community can help each other, and we can get some feedback to improve rank math as well. joining the group is also a great way to connect with like-minded people and share your seo experience. branding guideline rank math® is a registered trademark. please use the following format when mentioning the rank math seo plugin anywhere. * rank math [correct] * rank math [incorrect] * rank math [incorrect] * rank math [incorrect] * rankmath [incorrect] * rankmath [incorrect] * rankmath [incorrect] * rankmath [incorrect] getting started: 1. how to setup rank math: once you install rank math for the first time, you will be greeted with the setup wizard, which is discussed in detail here. 2. facebook group: in this group, you will find the team of rank math seo plugin fairly active and ready to answer your seo related queries. 3. user documentation: although rank math is already easy to set up, we’ve put together tutorials, guides, and some knowledge bases to help you set up and get started with rank math. 4. fixing common errors: sometimes, avoidable or common issues can get you stuck. we’ve created a common guide where we discuss all the common issues and how to fix them. 5. support ticket forum: our dedicated forum is where you can get support for any issues that you face with rank math. in the forum, we’ll also try to answer some seo queries. user experience is important to us, and our aim is to answer all the queries on the forum in a timely manner. 6. frequently asked questions: here, we’ve answered the most commonly asked questions about rank math. the questions are related to features, pricing, and others. screenshots fully integrated with the gutenberg aka new editor. optimize content without any hassle and works with the classic editor. analyze your website's seo with one click and fix the issues. simple setup wizard with 1-click importer. support for 12+ rich snippet types. no need to pay any service when you can track keyword ranking change from our own search console. comes with in-built options for social media optimization. rank math comes with 404 monitor and easy to use redirection manager. comes with 1-click importer for many seo plugins. powerful xml sitemap. role manager gives you full control. useful for multi-author sites. rank math comes with 10+ free module. blocks this plugin provides 3 blocks. rank-math/howto-block wordpress seo plugin - rank math rank-math/faq-block wordpress seo plugin - rank math rank-math/rich-snippet wordpress seo plugin - rank math installation visit ‘plugins > add new’ search for ‘rank math’ install rank math once it appears activate rank math from your plugins page. go to “after activation” below. manually upload the seo-by-rank-math folder to the /wp-content/plugins/ directory activate the rank math plugin through the ‘plugins’ menu in wordpress go to “after activation” below. after activation you should see the rank math setup wizard. go through the setup wizard and set up the plugin for your site. you’re done! faq do you guarantee that the traffic will increase? quite honestly – no one can give you a guarantee that your traffic will increase. if anyone does, they have an agenda, and you should stay as far away from them as possible. seo is an ever-changing game, and what works today might not work tomorrow. with that said, we do guarantee that our plugin is the best seo plugin there is, and it gives you the best chance of ranking higher in google than any other seo plugin available right now. can i transfer my seo & redirection settings from another plugin to rank math? absolutely. rank math has a built-in feature to import seo settings from the most popular seo plugins like yoast seo, yoast seo premium, aio seo pack, all in one schema rich snippets, and redirection. once you install rank math and run the setup wizard, you’ll see a dedicated step where you’ll get to import all your seo settings to rank math. what themes does rank math support? rank math has been tested with many wordpress themes and supports all major wordpress themes. since we follow wordpress’ plugin development guidelines, you can rest assured that rank math will work perfectly, no matter what theme you use. if you’ve installed rank math and are facing issues, it might not be because of a theme incompatibility. please get in touch with the support team by opening a support ticket in our support forum, and we will fix it for you. what plugins is rank math compatible with? rank math has been designed using wordpress’ strict plugin development guidelines and therefore, is compatible with majority of plugins. however, if you use another seo plugin that performs any of the functions that rank math does, then you might get unexpected results. we recommend that you disable or delete other seo plugins for best results. will my website slow down if i install rank math? no. rank math’s code has been created and optimized for maximum performance. that is why using rank math on your website will not slow down your website. on the contrary, there is a good chance that your website will perform better than ever with rank math, as it does the job of multiple plugins. once you remove the unnecessary plugins from your website, your website’s performance is sure to get better. will you set up rank math on my website? rank math is pretty easy to set up on your website. apart from detailed instructions on how to install rank math on your website, we’ve built in a user-friendly setup wizard that will help you setup and configure rank math perfectly for your website. if you face any issues even after using the setup wizard, please get in touch with the support team by sending an email to support@rankmath.com do i have to remove other seo plugins if i install rank math? that is preferred. rank math is designed to be an all in one seo plugin that takes care of everything seo-related. if you use other seo plugins with rank math on your website, not only will the performance of your website be negatively affected, but both plugins working together can produce unexpected seo results. i already use an seo plugin. can i use rank math on top of that plugin? you can, but we don’t recommend it. rank math has all the functionalities that you would need in an seo plugin. if you still prefer using another plugin for a specific feature, you can do that. but, we would recommend that you turn off that functionality of rank math to avoid potential issues. will i lose my rankings if i switch to rank math? no, you won’t. when you install rank math, it will seamlessly import your settings from your current seo plugin. once the process is complete, the search engines won’t even notice a change on your website. if you setup rank math from scratch, then your search engine rankings will depend on how you configure it. but please be advised that google and other search engines prefer good, useful content over anything else. what are the technical requirements for using rank math? rank math requires at least php 5.6, curl lib, cron jobs, to be installed and enabled on the server. those things are mostly installed on every good hosting server. when you initiate rank math’s setup process, rank math will also perform a compatibility check to confirm if your server can run rank math. if your server has a lower configuration of any software, please ask your hosting to update it to the latest version. can i use rank math on a wordpress.com website? yes, as the plugin is provided through wordpress.org, it is available on wordpress.com as well. which schema type is best for coupon websites? there’s no real schema markup designed specifically for separate discount codes. we would suggest not to use any schema markup and choose ‘none’ option for coupon codes because not doing so might get your site penalized. why are my images not getting indexed? it is completely normal for google not to index your submitted images. sometimes, not even a single submitted images is indexed by google. google is almost never willing to index all the pages and images available on a site. the number of pages and images that get indexed is based on the site’s reputation and the quality of the content among others. how do i noindex inner paginated posts of a website? rank math makes it extremely simple and easy to noindex the paginated series’ of your homepage, archives, or single posts. head over to wordpress dashboard > rank math > titles & meta > misc. pages. scroll down a bit and you will see the noindex paginated pages option. enable it and you are good to good. here is a screenshot for reference: https://i.rankmath.com/xptxfq now, your paginated pages like /page/2 etc. will no longer appear in search engines. the tag “rel=canonical” appears more than once in the document that must be coming from the theme’s code or some other seo/amp plugin as the rank math plugin adds only one canonical url per page. you should try disabling all other plugins and/or switch to a different theme and check. what’s the difference between various schema tags? there are mainly two types of schema entities, article and blogposting. article schema is mainly used for articles as the name suggests. it can also be used for pieces of investigative reports, newspaper articles, magazine articles, research papers, etc.. on the contrary, blogposting schema is used for blog posts. they can be personal or commercial in nature. most of the non-professional blogs you see online use this schema type. why is google not showing the schema data? for the rich snippet data, rank math plugin adds the necessary markup for rich snippets. it may take some time before they show up in the search results. please allow a few days for google to pick up the new information. google will not necessarily show the schema data though. they check a few things first and may choose not to show your rich schema. for instance, they check the overall quality of the site, and if the schema content is representative of the main content of the page or not. here is a quote from one of google’s help article: we perform algorithmic and manual quality checks to ensure that structured data meets relevancy standards. in cases where we see structured data that does not comply with these standards, we reserve the right to disable rich snippets for a site in order to maintain a high-quality search experience for our users. read our webmaster guidelines for more details. link: https://s.rankmath.com/googlestructureddata why is the carousel or data highlighter not working? google can actually extract contents from your pages and display as a rich carousel (amp or not). but to make it easier, the best you can do is to use the data highlighter option in your search appearance tab in webmaster tools for your important pages (especially the pillar posts) but not on all content types. rank math makes it extremely convenient to do so. to learn more about using this feature, visit https://s.rankmath.com/googledatahighlighter how to enter meta keywords in the plugin? google does not use the keywords meta tag in web ranking. here’s a video supporting that: bing also mentioned the following statement today, it’s pretty clear the meta keyword tag is dead in terms of seo value. sure, it might have value for contextual ad systems or serve as a signal to bots plying the web looking for topics to target, but as far as search goes, that tag flatlined years ago as a booster. because of these reasons, we do not have an option to add meta keywords to your posts. but, this is for your benefit as it has absolutely no effect on your serps or serp rankings. why am i getting a ‘not found’ error on my sitemaps? we are extremely sorry that you are facing this issue. please try the following and see if it helps: 1. head over to wp dashboard >> settings >> permalinks (wp-admin/options-permalink.php) and click on the ‘save changes’ button without making any change to the settings. 2. make sure you have at least one piece of content published and you haven’t excluded it from being included in the sitemap. you can read more about the possible sitemap errors and the solutions on this page: sitemap errors & fixes these steps will sort your issue in 9 out of 10 cases. if not, please open a new support ticket here: https://s.rankmath.com/support you do not need to register separately and can even use your free account to open a ticket. we look forward to helping you. reviews killed my site! sy march 27, 2020 latest update completely killed my site! couldnt login, had to disable all plugins via cpanel to get into backend. didnt bother with support due to the amount of reviews saying its a waste of time! stick with seopress, great support and way better seo plugin than rankmath great plugin jttriana86 march 27, 2020 very good plugin i liked more than yoast best seo-plugin thunbo65 march 27, 2020 always satisfied. support is super fast and dedicated to solve any challenge. best seo plugin gaurav kumar march 27, 2020 i am impressed with this seo plugin. this is a pro seo plugin. great seo plugin 5minseo march 27, 2020 very, very happy with rankmath. i'm moving all of my clients over to them. rankmath – never leave a website without it! ckcisme1966 march 27, 2020 i don't know if i could have learned and accomplished as much as i have without rankmath's plugin. if you are using wordpress and are at any level from beginner (as i was) to expert, this is a "must-have" tool for your website! the support has been exceptional and even the facebook group has been extremely useful! great tool - never leave a website without it! read all 980 reviews contributors & developers “wordpress seo plugin – rank math” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors rank math “wordpress seo plugin – rank math” has been translated into 10 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “wordpress seo plugin – rank math” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.0.41.1 [mar 26, 2020] fixed: cmb2 errors throwing up on some installations 1.0.41 [mar 26, 2020] added: [new!] a way for users to connect their google api app to rank math for fetching the data from the google search console added: a notice to nginx server users, showing a code to be added in the configuration file if the sitemaps were not opening added: 3 new english power words into the list added: the left sidebar’s menu items appear instantly when a new module is activated from the rank math’s dashboard area added: an option to ignore cases when creating a new redirection improved: the scoring system in the plugin. you might notice a minor mismatch in the scores. you can revisit your posts/pages and follow this updated guide to score better points improved: removed url decoding to allow special characters in the redirection’s destination field improved: synced all the default values for the setup wizard options with the options panel enhanced: if the ‘rich media’, ‘keyword density’ & ‘length of content’ tests do not reach 100%, they will now show different colors so users would know these tests need more work. one can read more about these test in this scoring guide enhanced: streamlined editing workflow for the seo title using variables while editing posts/pages/cpts. previously, when you’d start entering a new meta title, the pre-defined variables would be removed, which made it difficult for some to make changes. this has now been changed so that this is no longer the case fixed: authorization issues when connecting google search console due to permission related inconsistencies fixed: a couple of rest api security issues reported by wordfence team fixed: woocommerce’s product page was not getting redirected to the new base when remove category base option was enabled fixed: urls with cyrillic characters were not showing correctly in the permalink field fixed: an issue where they were a score mismatch between the classic & the new block editor fixed: filter to remove the rank math’s tests work with the new block/gutenberg editor as well fixed: polylang’s serp preview url was not showing language code in term’s edit page fixed: a redirection issue on a sub-directory installation, where rank math was throwing a 404 error when a user tried to access the admin from the main domain. fixed it following wordpress’s guidelines fixed: a woocommerce issue where a trailing slash was getting added incorrectly to the product category pages when the ‘remove category base’ & ‘remove parent slug’ options were enabled. though, the canonical urls were working fine full changelog can be found here – rank math seo changelog meta version: 1.0.41.1 last updated: 1 day ago active installations: 200,000+ wordpress version: 4.9.0 or higher tested up to: 5.4 php version: 5.6 or higher languages: see all 11 close english (us), french (france), german, german (austria), german (switzerland), indonesian, persian, russian, spanish (mexico), spanish (spain), and spanish (venezuela). translate into your language tags: google search consoleredirectionschemaseositemap advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 929 4 stars 13 3 stars 9 2 stars 6 1 star 23 contributors rank math support issues resolved in last two months: 159 out of 163 view support forum about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.