wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase 9 best conference call services of 2020 compared (w/ free options) posted on march 27th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking for the best online conference call service for your business? with the rising trend of remote working, many businesses rely heavily on conference calls, group video calls, and group team chats. there are tons of great free and paid conference call services… read more » 7 best wix alternatives in 2020 (more powerful and reliable) posted on march 20th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking for the best wix alternatives? wix is a website builder that people use to create a website when they first start out, likely because they saw a tv commercial or heard one of the many ads. the challenge is that their free… read more » 7 best platforms to easily sell digital products (compared) posted on march 18th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to sell digital products online? perhaps you’re planning to create ebooks, online courses, software, or something else entirely. regardless of which type of digital product you create, you will need an easy to use platform to sell your digital products and deliver… read more » 25 popular sites using wordpress as a cms in 2020 posted on march 13th, 2020 by editorial staff wondering how you can use wordpress as a cms? one of the most common misconceptions about wordpress is that it is just a blogging software. some of you often ask us for examples of wordpress being used as a cms platform (content management system) and… read more » 7 best free autoresponder tools of 2020 (pros & cons compared) posted on march 6th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking for the best free autoresponder tools to start sending automated emails? the good news is that there are lots of ways to get started without paying. you don’t need to delay building and growing your email list until your site starts making… read more » 61 best free wordpress blog themes for 2020 posted on february 28th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking for a free wordpress blog theme for your website? there are thousands of free blog themes for wordpress making it harder for beginners to choose one for their sites. these blog themes are further divided into different niches and categories. in this… read more » 7 best countdown plugins for wordpress (easy to use) posted on february 21st, 2020 by editorial staff readers often ask us how to add a countdown timer to their website. countdown timers are a great way to build anticipation, excitement, and create fomo effect on your website. there are lots of different countdown plugins out there that let you create a countdown… read more » 7 best free ecommerce platforms for 2020 (compared) posted on february 19th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking for the best free ecommerce platform to build your ecommerce website? in the early days, ecommerce platforms used to cost thousands which kept many small businesses from creating an online store. luckily now there are several popular ecommerce platforms that offer free… read more » 15 best and most popular cms platforms in 2020 (compared) posted on february 14th, 2020 by editorial staff are you wondering what cms platform to use for building your website? a cms (content management system) platform lets you easily create a website without understanding any code (at least for most of them). there are lots of cms options available, which means you might… read more » 9 best free logo makers to help you look like a pro (2020) posted on february 12th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking for the best free logo maker to create a new logo for your business? whether you’re running a small business website or a starting a blog, you want to look like a pro. this means having a great logo that fits your… read more » 1 2 3 … 20 » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.