skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about wordpress wordpress is used by millions of websites some estimates have it at over 30% of the world wide web. from small personal blogs all the way to enterprise pubishers – it’s the first choice of the people and businesses all around the world. due to the impressive versatility of wordpress it competes with website builders like wix & weebly, ecommerce platforms like shopify and content management systems like joomla & drupal… because in many ways it can do it all. however, just like any piece of software, it has a bit of a learning curve. once you have started a wordpress website then you might want to dig in to this section – below are a number of wordpress tutorials and product reviews i have written over the years. best affiliate wordpress plugins for 2020 by jamie affiliate marketing has changed the e-commerce landscape. while the concept has been around since the early days of the internet, affiliate marketing has become a massive part of the e-commerce world in the last couple of decades. today, it’s a must-have part of the branding puzzle for companies big and small. whether you’re looking to … read morebest affiliate wordpress plugins for 2020 categories wordpress best wordpress membership plugins for 2020 by jamie have you been thinking about starting a membership site? if so, you’re making a smart choice. membership sites are springing up all over the web, and for good reason! a membership site will put you in complete control of your revenue. that’s right; there’s no need to worry about losing a huge deal, a major … read morebest wordpress membership plugins for 2020 categories wordpress 99 wordpress stats you have to see to believe – 2020 by jamie wordpress is hands down the world’s most popular content management system and number one blogging platform for starting a blog with. however, some outliers love questioning the masses and need a little convincing to jump on the wordpress bandwagon. we’re not here to make you jump. we just want to open some eyes to the … read more99 wordpress stats you have to see to believe – 2020 categories wordpress best month to month web hosting deals – 2020 by jamie afraid of commitment? we get it. from committing to a relationship to buying a house, not everyone wants to be locked into a long-term commitment. the same is true for web hosting. for some website owners, it makes more sense to go month-to-month. doing so will allow you to test the performance, security, tools, and … read morebest month to month web hosting deals – 2020 categories tech buying guides, wordpress how to register a domain name: everything you need to know by jamie if you are thinking about creating your own blog, or setting up your own online business, then the first step in this process is to register a domain name for your new site. there is much to consider when choosing and registering a new domain name, and the task can initially seem a little overwhelming. … read morehow to register a domain name: everything you need to know categories wordpress the ultimate guide to the amazon associates program – 2020 by jamie creating an amazon affiliate niche website is an effective way to make money from the comfort of your own home. the amazon marketplace sells thousands of products to millions of customers across the globe. so whatever your website niche, you will be able to find a range of relevant and popular products to promote, enabling … read morethe ultimate guide to the amazon associates program – 2020 categories make money online, amazon fba, wordpress how to add a horizontal line to a wordpress post or page by jamie when you’re crafting a post or page on wordpress, it can be very easy to overlook the visual aspects of the final product. it’s important to take readability and organization into account. you can have the best copy in the world, but people aren’t going to want to read your page if it looks like … read morehow to add a horizontal line to a wordpress post or page categories wordpress how to add a contact form to your wordpress website or blog by jamie as a website owner you should definitely know how to add a contact form to your site. most people will want to know who’s behind your website, and have a way to reach out, if need be. contact forms give your visitors an easy way to get in touch with you. without a contact form, … read morehow to add a contact form to your wordpress website or blog categories wordpress how to speed up wordpress by joe fylan having a website that’s fast is no longer an option. putting google aside for a moment let’s focus on your visitors. we all know that people’s attention spans are at historical lows. so low in fact, that when researching some actual statistics, one of the most recent search results to pop up was a canadian … read morehow to speed up wordpress categories wordpress 2020 wordpress website checklist for launching a new website by jamie if you’re just about to embark on your own wordpress project or thinking about starting up your own blog, then this wordpress checklist will come in very handy!it can be daunting building your own wordpress website or blog. that’s why we have produced an easy to understand step by step checklist of all the tasks … read more2020 wordpress website checklist for launching a new website categories cheat sheets, wordpress why is wordpress free and what are the hidden costs? by jamie competition for website development and web hosting is so fierce that anyone wishing to create a website or start a blog can get started with a full package for next to nothing. going one better, you can start a blog site on wordpress for free. why is wordpress free? what’s the catch? what are the … read morewhy is wordpress free and what are the hidden costs? categories wordpress wix vs wordpress – everything you need to know by jamie if you are looking to create a new website, choosing the right platform for your project can be a hard decision. both wix and wordpress are powerful solutions and will enable you to create beautiful pages and posts. however, they also both provide extremely different design and user experiences. so which one is right for … read morewix vs wordpress – everything you need to know categories wordpress how to find out what wordpress theme a site is using by jamie finding the right theme for your wordpress blog or website can be something of a challenge. when starting a blog you will need to do four things in order to get your blog off the ground. i’ve listed them below, and surprise surprise, choosing a theme is one of the four.1. domain name: choose the name … read morehow to find out what wordpress theme a site is using categories wordpress 48 of the best wordpress plugins for business websites – 2020 by jamie [updated: 18th february 2019] – added rankmath wordpress seo pluginsuccess in any vocation includes having the right tools to accomplish your goals and objectives. if you’re thinking about building a website for your business or starting a blog, then wordpress is more than likely to be the right tool for you to succeed online. wordpress can … read more48 of the best wordpress plugins for business websites – 2020 categories wordpress how to find your wordpress login by jamie there are few things more frustrating than installing and setting up a wordpress website only to forget how to log back in. whether it’s a site that you’re administering or one that you’ve set up for a client, it’s easy to forget the steps necessary to log in to a wordpress website. fortunately, once you … read morehow to find your wordpress login categories wordpress post navigation older posts 1 2 … 4 next → best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub