skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events the wacky world of sorta brilliant’s sorta fun block plugins justin tadlock · march 12, 2020 · 7 comments you could say that i am a bit of a fanboy of the late 1990s and early 2000s web. i loved the funkiness of geocities. woocommerce 4.0 lands with new admin interface and updated onboarding experience justin tadlock · march 11, 2020 · 16 comments yesterday, automattic launched version 4.0 of its woocommerce plugin. except for the new admin interface, which has been in testing … continue reading woocommerce 4.0 lands with new admin interface and updated onboarding experience → advice for newcomers to remote work: lessons learned justin tadlock · march 10, 2020 · 6 comments “what did you do today?” asked my aunt. “take a nap? watch tv?” “you know, i work a real job, … continue reading advice for newcomers to remote work: lessons learned → editor will default to fullscreen mode in wordpress 5.4 justin tadlock · march 9, 2020 · 24 comments riad benguella announced on the core development blog last week the editor in wordpress 5.4 will ship in fullscreen mode … continue reading editor will default to fullscreen mode in wordpress 5.4 → bracketspace releases library of reusable code for plugin and theme development justin tadlock · march 6, 2020 · 9 comments bracketspace, a wordpress-centric software development company based, released micropackage a few weeks ago. the project is a collection of open-source … continue reading bracketspace releases library of reusable code for plugin and theme development → gutenberg hub launches collection of 100 block templates justin tadlock · march 5, 2020 · 6 comments gutenberg hub launched its collection of block templates yesterday. the project, which kicked off with 100 free templates, aims to … continue reading gutenberg hub launches collection of 100 block templates → preparing for wordpress 5.4: changes theme and plugin developers should know about justin tadlock · march 4, 2020 · 24 comments with the release of wordpress 5.4 looming, it is time for plugin and theme developers to begin testing their extensions … continue reading preparing for wordpress 5.4: changes theme and plugin developers should know about → will page builders remain competitive in the block era? justin tadlock · march 3, 2020 · 43 comments as elementor, the most-used wordpress page builder, celebrated its first round of funding at $15 million, some of our readers … continue reading will page builders remain competitive in the block era? → the international wordpress community and wordcamps amid covid-19 justin tadlock · march 2, 2020 · 10 comments with the rising numbers of people who have contracted covid-19, a disease caused by sars-cov-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus … continue reading the international wordpress community and wordcamps amid covid-19 → elementor raises $15 million, plans to invest in the team, product, and community justin tadlock · february 28, 2020 · 28 comments elementor, which has quickly become one of the leading wordpress page builders and companies, announced wednesday it raised $15 million … continue reading elementor raises $15 million, plans to invest in the team, product, and community → gutenberg 7.6 includes rotating tips list and new full-site editing blocks justin tadlock · february 27, 2020 · 17 comments yesterday, the gutenberg team released version 7.6 of the plugin. most of the work in this update went toward the … continue reading gutenberg 7.6 includes rotating tips list and new full-site editing blocks → posts navigation ← previous 1 2 3 … 457 next → recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram