skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons justin tadlock · march 27, 2020 · no comments on monday, the font awesome team launched a new set of icons to promote awareness around covid-19. the solid icons … continue reading font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons → gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup justin tadlock · march 26, 2020 · 9 comments version 7.8 of the gutenberg plugin landed yesterday. the team continues to improve the editor with the refreshed interface work … continue reading gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup → finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles justin tadlock · march 25, 2020 · 9 comments there is a popular saying, which has been used in several memes, among my developer and remote-working friend groups. it … continue reading finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles → yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor justin tadlock · march 24, 2020 · no comments yoast, the company behind the popular yoast seo plugin, launched its free block editor training course today. the course is … continue reading yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor → block patterns will change everything justin tadlock · march 23, 2020 · 21 comments it was about a year ago. i was happily designing a theme for aspiring novelists. i wanted to get ahead … continue reading block patterns will change everything → still no wood grain: wp tavern design update justin tadlock · march 20, 2020 · 22 comments it has been a bit of a slow news week in the land of wordpress with the covid-19 pandemic reaching … continue reading still no wood grain: wp tavern design update → block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates justin tadlock · march 19, 2020 · 31 comments the gutenberg project and its eventual full-site editing feature is coming upon a major issue that will need to be … continue reading block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates → build custom templates with the mb views add-on for meta box justin tadlock · march 18, 2020 · 1 comment meta box released its mb views add-on plugin last week. the new extension allows developers to build custom templates from … continue reading build custom templates with the mb views add-on for meta box → github acquires npm, plans to improve infrastructure and experience justin tadlock · march 17, 2020 · 9 comments github announced yesterday that it had acquired the popular javascript package service npm for an undisclosed amount. npm, inc. was … continue reading github acquires npm, plans to improve infrastructure and experience → gutenberg 7.7 ships refreshed ui and first iteration of block patterns justin tadlock · march 16, 2020 · 9 comments last week, version 7.7 of the gutenberg plugin shipped to users. in what is one of the more visually-striking updates … continue reading gutenberg 7.7 ships refreshed ui and first iteration of block patterns → women in tech salary transparency project: addressing the gender pay gap justin tadlock · march 13, 2020 · 5 comments lizzie kardon, head of content and engagement at pagely, was featured in a nationwide segment on nbc’s today show last … continue reading women in tech salary transparency project: addressing the gender pay gap → posts navigation 1 2 … 457 next → recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram