toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog about wording well last updated on: december 11th, 2019 about wording well’s owner, lorraine reguly: hi. i’m lorraine. i work wizardry with words. i am an editor who also does freelance writing. in fact, i’m one of the 25 successful copywriting experts you should know. i also help others become authors. (note: if you are interested in becoming an author, follow these steps to becoming a self-published author!) i’m a certified math and english teacher (see my teaching credentials) who has been blogging for years. i have an author site, laying it out there. on the wording well blog, you will find information for bloggers, freelancers, writers, authors, and business owners. you’ll also find a few posts about my personal experiences! i even know how to edit html in wordpress and create page jumps. what i can do for you: i offer 4 distinct services that will help relieve you of your work stress. mainly, i do editing and freelance writing. by having professionally written and edited content, you will be seen as a professional. your monthly income will grow. so will your audience! i do all of the following: – writing (including ghostwriting and crafting shareable, web-optimized blog posts) – editing (i ensure your words and works are comprehensively composed and proofread to perfection!) – coaching/mentoring/consulting (personal and professional) – i also help others become independently published authors (so you can earn passive income through e-book and/or print book sales!) wording well is the solution to your stress… …especially if you are someone who: – is stuck and wants to learn how to grow your business and/or blog – is trying to be a better writer, blogger, or freelancer – is in need of a writer, ghostwriter, editor, or blogger – is in need of a helping hand or some guidance – is too busy to “do it all” on your own and needs help do you: – want your blog posts to rank high in google search? – want more traffic to your blog? – need a writer/editor/blogger/coach who understands your business needs? – want to make more money with your website? – want to write and/or publish a book or e-book but don’t know where to start? if you answered yes to any of these questions, then hire me. i do freelance writing and editing, and i do it well. i’m awesome and my clients love me. (check out the testimonials i’ve received.) some of my accomplishments (as a result of my writing and editing talents): – i’ve written numerous posts that have hit the #1 spot on google. – the 4th blog post i ever wrote landed on the first page of the search results. it was about the visualbee toolbar. – i’ve written for top sites, including problogger, aha!now, and make a living writing. (check out my portfolio!) – i’ve contributed to dozens of expert round-up posts. (see my portfolio page for a complete list.) – i was the first person ever to guest post on sites that have now become quite popular, such as dear blogger and madlemmings. (i was a “newbie” blogger then, too!) – i have pioneered a set of rules for bloggers regarding guest posting and guest hosting. – i helped a blind man become an author… three times! (read about his first journey to publishing his first printed book.) i’m an honest person and my honesty has opened oceans of opportunity for me! i’m easy to work with. i can help you achieve your goals, too, whatever they may be! if you hire me as a freelance writer/blogger, i will: – create compelling content for your site (complete with images, screenshots, stats, links, etc.) – make sure it’s written in your brand’s voice and style – ensure it’s written well, is free of typos, and is formatted properly – upload it directly to your blog, to save you the time and hassle of doing so (if this is something you want) – help share it on social media (and to my audience and email list, if it is relevant to them) – custom-tailor my services to suit your needs! i can also help you: – create downloadable content to help grow your email list – write an e-book (or a series of e-books) that you can publish and sell (to increase your sales revenue) – learn to monetize your blog with adsense (to add extra passive income to your earnings) – write newsletters and/or emails to send to your subscribers – devise a blogging plan and/or a social media strategy for your business – focus on other areas of your business through coaching/mentoring if you hire me as an editor or proofreader, i will: – use the track changes feature in ms word so that you can see all the changes i make – do a sample edit of 300 words for free, to prove my worth to you – complete the work within the estimated time frame – answer any questions you may have regarding the edits i make – communicate with you on an ongoing basis via email regarding your project – be flexible with the payment plan (for large projects) i am: – a blogger with years of experience writing for others (check out my portfolio) – a certified english teacher who loves words – an author who has helped others become authors too – loved by my clients (check out my testimonials) – the solution to managing your work stress! by hiring me, i can help you relax and make you confident that your business and blog are running smoothly. put your work in my capable hands… and improve your life stress. allow wording well to help you. contact me. let’s talk! freebies for bloggers from wording well i offer a free e-book to my subscribers. pick up your copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! wording well also offers many freebies. just visit the resource kit page. plus, check out the many resources for #writers (#authors and #freelancers). and if you want to be a guest or advertise on wording well, read my guest posting guidelines page. wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! and many more! © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy