 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog anya skrba october 1st, 2019 blog setup service don’t have time to do it yourself? let us setup your new blog for only $29.99 the quickest and easiest way to get your blog online. you can spend $100+ and do it yourself, or you could save the money (plus get it done for you by experts) in 72 hours or less what does our blog setup service include? a free domain name registration for one year provided by bluehost * (usually $12+) wordpress cms installed (potential problem for newbies) hand-picked premium wordpress theme – see our “how will it look?” section below (worth $69) you will receive a fully functional wordpress blog (ready to start blogging) you will get full control of your blog, web hosting, and domain name * please note: in order to continue with the blog setup service, you are required to use bluehost, our recommended hosting provider, so you can get a free domain name provided by bluehost. only new hosting account signed up through us is able to receive the blog setup service. who is the hosting company? we work with bluehost – most reliable company with great customer support and best reviews. after you purchase our blog setup service, you need to signup with bluehost and buy your hosting service. once you choose the monthly plan that you like, you will need to send us your bluehost logins in order for us to start working on your blog. we highly recommend bluehost that powers over 2 million websites worldwide and only for our visitors, they offer a special deal that includes a free domain name and a 30-day money-back guarantee. bluehost web hosting company is recommended by wordpress.org as one “of the best and brightest of the hosting world”. how will it look? these are examples of how your future blog would look like. it will have exactly the same structure and look like these demos! you will need to do additional changes such as insert your own images, add your unique text, assign your own social profiles, etc. food blog view demo fashion blog view demo travel blog view demo *note: these are just a few examples of the most popular niche blogs. keep in mind that we can create any other type of blog using the same setup in order to meet the blog niche of your choice. same structure could be used for any type of blog, such as mom blog, dad blog, lifestyle blog, music blog, etc. bonuses: your blog will be mobile friendly so people can easily access it via mobile devices we will optimize your new blog for seo, and you can rank better in search engines we will add all necessary plugins that you will need to become a successful blogger we will give you access to our free tutorials to help you run, and grow your new blog what others are saying about our services if you need help with help with starting and growing your online presence, check out free resources @firstsiteguide robert terson @robertterson how to start a blog via @firstsiteguide. super helpful! mari smith @marismith launching a new site? recommend visiting @firstsiteguide for some great free tutorials & resources! robert bertholf @rob yes, set up my blog for only $29.99 frequently asked questions how long will it take for my blog to be set up? you will get your wordpress blog up and running in 72 hours or less (working days) after you send us your wordpress logins. do i get ongoing support for my new blog? no. this type of service gives you one time basic installation of wordpress on your blog plus a premium theme installed. who is the hosting company? we work with bluehost – most reliable company with great customer support and best reviews. after you purchase our blog setup service, you need to signup with bluehost in order for us to start working on your blog. *note: existing bluehost accounts are not eligible for this service. only new account signed up through us is able to receive the blog setup service. what will happen if i decide to quit blogging? nothing at all. you don’t need to pay anything extra. simply cancel your account with your hosting company any time you wish. yes, set up my blog for only $29.99 * with this offer you will receive one year of free domain name from bluehost. it will be your responsibility to renew it after one year if you want to keep your blog up and running. blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.