skip to content menu pricing templates demo contact blog account downloads & orders support support tickets knowledge base change logs affiliate area edit account add/change payment method logout account login support knowledge base get it now checkout beaver themer add-on plugin - use beaver themer to customize every part of your site! try it today! menu pricing templates demo contact blog account downloads & orders support support tickets knowledge base change logs affiliate area edit account add/change payment method logout account login support knowledge base get it now checkout awesome software, great support, and a helpful community. beaver builder is the wordpress page builder you can trust with your business. take control and join over 1,000,000 websites built with beaver builder. awesome software, great support, and a helpful community. beaver builder is the wordpress page builder you can trust with your business. take control and join over 1,000,000 websites built with beaver builder. get beaver builder now try a live demo get beaver builder now try a live demo the biggest names in wordpress trust beaver builder free up your time and unleash your creativity beaver builder is a complete design system that includes a wordpress page builder plugin and a framework theme. if you're a wordpress user, finally get complete control of your website. our page builder plugin works with your existing website. building beautiful, professional pages and is as easy as dragging and dropping. if you're a web professional, build responsive sites faster than ever. a wordpress website builder and framework theme can revolutionize your workflow. save valuable time and empower clients to handle their own edits. why beaver builder is your best choice other than offering unlimited site licenses and world-class support, here are a few more reasons to leave it to beaver builder: kick-start your creativity with dozens of gorgeous page templates. wordpress templates make designing easy and save you time. choose a template, replace the images and text with yours, then hit publish. you can even save your own designs as templates and reuse them all over your site, or export them to use on a different site. you can position images and text with precision, and build column based layouts in minutes. positioning text and images with the wordpress editor is a pain! beaver builder's front end drag and drop website builder gives you total control over the layout of your pages. join over 175,000 websites using the flexible and powerful beaver builder theme. child themes should be used for your customizations. choose from a variety of styles using our settings presets, then modify them with the native wordpress customizer. the beaver builder theme is the last one you'll ever need. separate your page builder from your theme and get complete control of your content. beaver builder's page builder plugin can be used with any theme and you can switch themes without losing your content. even if you decide to stop using beaver builder, your content gets ported right back into the wordpress editor. build your website in minutes, not months get beaver builder now people really love beaver builder every person that buys beaver builder becomes part of the family. every person then benefits from what any other family member creates. chris lema - chrislema.com just had to say i am in love with the beaver builder! omg! just got it a couple days ago and am quickly becoming obsessed about it... keep up the great work! thanks for an awesome product! kim doyal aka the wordpress chick it’s more than just your typical wordpress plugin. it’s a framework. it’s an engine of sorts; a complete toolset that adds ease to wordpress website development. wpkube i am totally blown away at the intelligence and brilliance of this plugin. i am a developer that develops with genesis and have staunchly been opposed to using builders...until now. clifton - clifton creative web beaver builder is by far the best option in the market. it comes with pre-made templates to help you get started. the ability to customize every little detail makes it a perfect solution for all users syed balkhi - wpbeginner.com i love working with beaver builder! it’s elegant and intuitive interface made building and editing our company’s wordpress pages a breeze. brad carneghi - carneghi + partners i seriously love @beaverbuilder if you're not using, you should really try it out, it'll change your life! jonathan perez - sure fire web services i've used beaver builder for several months now and i have to say that, compared to its competitors, it's the one that offers the best performance and ease of use for my clients. thierry pigot - consultant wordpress beaver builder in the wild real people make really cool websites with beaver builder! wp engine - wordpress hosting, perfected hi-chew - a really yummy candy crowd favorite - enterprise-grade digital solutions carrie fisher - actress, author, mental health advocate the nitty-gritty details what would you like to learn more about? page builder plugin* all packages beaver builder theme* pro & agency packages help & support* all packages included modules* all packages agency features* agency package only page builder plugin* all packages live, front end editing what you see is what you get! beaver builder’s intuitive wordpress website builder works in real time on the front end of your page. no more guesswork. mobile friendly / responsive as long as you're using a responsive theme, any page built with beaver builder will be totally responsive. translation ready support for the popular wpml translation plugin has been baked into beaver builder's core for international users. woocommerce support beaver builder plays great with woocommerce. it's never been easier to design a storefront. works with almost any theme need a wordpress site builder for genesis, divi, woothemes, or ultimatum? the page builder plugin works with almost any theme. multisite capable our pro & agency packages both support multisite installs. our agency package features a network-wide control panel so you can make changes across your network. save and reuse rows & modules configure a row/module once, then use it all over your site. set a saved row/module as a global and your changes will affect all instances of the module/row. shortcode and widget support beaver builder supports shortcodes and widgets so you can use your other favorite plugins. want to use ninja forms or an easy pricing table? we've got you covered! developer friendly developers can extend and customize beaver builder through widgets or by using our powerful (and well-documented) custom module boilerplate. supports posts, pages, and custom post types just because it's called a page builder doesn't mean you're limited to wordpress pages. hand off sites to clients with editor mode limit your client's abilities with editor mode, and prevent them from accidentally breaking their pages. tuned & optimized for seo standards such as schema.org markup and code compression ensure your pages are easily found by search engines. reusable templates every layout you create can be saved and reused an unlimited number of times to quickly build new pages. import/export share your layouts with others, or migrate your site, using wordpress' built in import/export tools. beaver builder theme* pro & agency packages simple but powerful our goal and philosophy for beaver builder is to create a toolset that's powerful enough for developers, but simple enough for end users. the beaver builder theme is the perfect balance of settings and functionality. as a web agency, we've spent years working with thousands of clients, and we built this theme to serve real world needs. live editing via the wordpress customizer we've fully adopted the wordpress customizer for all of our theme settings. this enables you to live preview any of your theme setting changes. with beaver builder, editing your theme is just as easy as editing your pages. what we do differently other popular framework themes offer child themes with a variety of different designs. the downside to this is that wordpress doesn't support "grandchild" themes. if you wanted to modify one of the other guys' child themes, you're stuck. we do things a bit differently. we have a variety of presets that automatically update the theme settings to create dozens of different styles with the click of a button. you can then modify these presets to your heart's content with the beaver builder child theme. built on bootstrap the beaver builder theme utilizes the popular bootstrap framework as its css base. with best practices baked in and a thriving community, bootstrap puts you in good hands. you're in good company over 175,000 websites are using the beaver builder theme and it powers several high-traffic websites and blogs. the stability of our theme has been battle tested and it's a great choice for projects of any size. help & support* all packages we're here for you we take great pride in offering timely, world-class support. we cherish the opportunities to chat with and get to know you and your business. support hours most questions are answered within a few hours, and we do our best to answer all questions by the next business day. support is limited on weekends and holidays. support scope with your permission, we will gladly login to your wordpress admin panel or ftp so we can deal with any issues "hands on." we've released several updates to directly address specific plugin conflicts that our users alerted us to. we want beaver builder to work for you, and we'll bend over backwards to make that happen. even if your problem isn't directly related to beaver builder, we will at least get you pointed in the right direction. included modules* all packages photo * insert a photo from your wordpress media library or url. text editor * adds rich text, similar to the wordpress post editor. video * renders a video from your your media library or a url. separator inserts a line to separate sections or content. accordion creates an interactive accordion. useful for an faq or q&a pages. heading used for page headings or titles. button renders a button pointing to an external or internal url. call to action the call to action module allows you to call attention to content, i.e., specific services you offer or a special. callout the callout module is a more robust method of calling attention to content, very similar to the call to action module. contact form creates a simple contact form for visitors to fill out. content slider used to create robust content slide shows featuring images and/or rich text. gallery insert a gallery of images from your media library or smugmug. tabs easily create tabular content. number counter create animated circle, number, and bar counters. subscribe form create newsletter signup forms that integrate with mailchimp, mad mimi, constant contact, and many others. html * used to insert custom html or shortcodes on your page. sidebar * insert any of the core wordpress sidebars or widget columns into your page. icon renders an icon on your page. icons from fontawesome, foundation, and dashicons are available. icon group insert a group of icons. useful for building social media buttons. map renders a google map based on an address. posts create blog pages and post grids with images. filterable by tags or categories. post carousel generates an animated carousel of blog, or custom post type, posts. filterable by tags or categories. post slider generates an animated, magazine style slider of posts. filterable by tags or categories. pricing table creates a simple pricing table, like the one on our pricing page. slideshow renders a slide show of images from either your media library or smugmug. social buttons insert social icons so visitors can tweet, like or share content to social networks. testimonials creates a testimonial slider with various style options. woocommerce drag and drop products to build an online store. menu renders a native wordpress menu with several display and formatting options. * available in lite version. agency features* agency package only beaver builder agency package our agency package includes many useful features for anyone running a web agency or wordpress multisite network. along with all the other features included with our pro and standard packages, the agency package includes white-labeling functionality, a network-wide settings panel for multisite installs, support for creating a diy web publishing platform, and the ability to override core templates. white labeling give your clients a high-end, white-glove experience with white labeling. white labeling allows you to replace the words page builder, beaver builder, and the beaver builder logo, with your own company's name or logo. network-wide settings while the pro package is also multisite capable, the page builder settings must be set on each site individually. this can be cumbersome if your network contains many sites. network-wide settings will save you time by allowing super admins to configure the page builder for all sites on a network in one place and override them on a site-by-site basis. diy web publishing platform niche, diy publishing platforms are big business! want to create a system for people to create their own wedding pages? or perhaps a saas-based service for users to put a resume or portfolio online? you can use the agency pack to build your own diy web builder business! override core templates the default templates that are included with beaver builder can be overridden and replaced with your own. build your website in minutes, not months get beaver builder now additional resources pricing blog careers faqs knowledge base community forum change logs beaver builder theme recommended builders recommended resources swag store affiliate program contact us get the latest news first our newsletter is personally written and sent out about once a month. it's not the least bit annoying or spammy. we promise. name* email* captcha this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. oh yeah, we're on social media too! let's get personal we're a team of three friends, based in sunny california, that found each other through our mutual passions for technology. our business supports our beautiful families (including a freshly-minted teenager and set of twins)! we love that we’re able to create open source software, contribute to wordpress, and further wordpress' mission to democratize publishing. all in all, you can feel pretty good about giving us your business. - billy, justin, & robby privacy policy | terms and conditions | brand assets powered by beaver builder © 2014-2020 fastline media llc