skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins extend your wordpress experience with 55,742 plugins. search for: search plugins block-enabled plugins see all block-enabled plugins caldera forms – more than contact forms (387 total ratings) responsive form builder for contact forms, user registration and login forms, mailchimp, paypal express and… caldera labs 200,000+ active installations tested with 5.4 updated 3 weeks ago cool timeline (167 total ratings) cool timeline wordpress plugin creates vertical and horizontal history timeline blocks in asc or desc… cool plugins 10,000+ active installations tested with 5.3.2 updated 1 week ago metatrader web terminal (1 total ratings) metatrader web terminal plugin for wordpress websites mql5 ltd. 200+ active installations tested with 5.3.2 updated 4 months ago product blocks for woocommerce (0 total ratings) product blocks for woocommerce helps you create beautiful product display for your products. getbowtied 2,000+ active installations tested with 5.3.2 updated 2 weeks ago featured plugins see all featured plugins akismet anti-spam (862 total ratings) akismet checks your comments and contact form submissions against our global database of spam to… automattic 5+ million active installations tested with 5.4 updated 1 week ago classic editor (796 total ratings) enables the previous "classic" editor and the old-style edit post screen with tinymce, meta boxes,… wordpress contributors 5+ million active installations tested with 5.3.2 updated 5 months ago jetpack by wordpress.com (1,472 total ratings) the ideal plugin for stats, related posts, search engine optimization, social sharing, protection, backups, security,… automattic 5+ million active installations tested with 5.3.2 updated 3 weeks ago bbpress (305 total ratings) bbpress is forum software for wordpress. the bbpress contributors 300,000+ active installations tested with 5.4 updated 2 months ago beta plugins see all beta plugins gutenberg (3,062 total ratings) the gutenberg plugin provides editing, customization, and site building features to wordpress. this beta plugin… gutenberg team 200,000+ active installations tested with 5.3.2 updated 1 hour ago lazy loading feature plugin (1 total ratings) wordpress feature plugin for testing and experimenting with automatically adding the "loading" html attribute. not… the wordpress team 400+ active installations tested with 5.4 updated 1 week ago wordpress auto-updates (0 total ratings) a feature plugin to integrate plugins & themes automatic updates in wordpress core. the wordpress team 300+ active installations tested with 5.4 updated 2 weeks ago core sitemaps (0 total ratings) a feature plugin to integrate basic xml sitemaps in wordpress core core sitemaps plugin contributors 90+ active installations tested with 5.4 updated 3 weeks ago popular plugins see all popular plugins contact form 7 (1,733 total ratings) just another contact form plugin. simple but flexible. takayuki miyoshi 5+ million active installations tested with 5.4 updated 3 weeks ago yoast seo (27,094 total ratings) improve your wordpress seo: write better content and have a fully optimized wordpress site using… team yoast 5+ million active installations tested with 5.4 updated 1 week ago akismet anti-spam (862 total ratings) akismet checks your comments and contact form submissions against our global database of spam to… automattic 5+ million active installations tested with 5.4 updated 1 week ago classic editor (796 total ratings) enables the previous "classic" editor and the old-style edit post screen with tinymce, meta boxes,… wordpress contributors 5+ million active installations tested with 5.3.2 updated 5 months ago add your plugin the wordpress plugin directory is the largest directory of free and open source wordpress plugins. find out how to host your plugin on wordpress.org. create a plugin building a plugin has never been easier. read through the plugin developer handbook to learn all about wordpress plugin development. stay up-to-date plugin development is constantly changing with each new wordpress release. keep up with the latest changes by following the plugin review team’s blog. about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.