wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » opinion » wordpress vs. blogger – which one is better? (pros and cons) wordpress vs. blogger – which one is better? (pros and cons) last updated on january 15th, 2018 by editorial staff 1.4k shares share tweet share pin are you planning to start a new blog? not sure whether you should use wordpress or blogger as your blog platform? well, we can help. wordpress and blogger are the two most popular blogging platforms on the internet. they both let you create a blog easily; however, there are some big differences between them. each one has its own pros and cons. in this article, we will compare blogger vs wordpress side by side and show you the differences that matter. our goal is to help you decide which one is better for your needs. what to look for in your blog platform? before we begin our wordpress vs. blogger comparison, let’s cover some important things to look for when choosing a blog platform. ease of use: you need a simple and easy to use platform to quickly set up your blog, add content, and grow your audience. flexibility: you need a platform which lets you add more features or use more resources as your blog grows. monetization options: do you want to make money online with your blog? if yes, then you need to choose a platform which has plenty of monetization options. support: you may need support while creating your blog, designing, or managing it. check whether you will get support when you need it or not. plus, you need to consider cost comparison, design options, search engine optimization (seo) opportunities, etc. with that said, let’s compare how wordpress and blogger stack up against these requirements. table of contents – wordpress vs blogger overview: blogger vs wordpress ease of use ownership control design options security support future portability pricing conclusion: blogger vs wordpress – which one is better? note: this comparison is between self-hosted wordpress.org and blogger (not wordpress.com vs blogger). see our guide on the differences between self-hosted wordpress.org vs wordpress.com. overview – wordpress vs blogger as we mentioned above, wordpress and blogger are the two most widely used blog management platforms in the world. according to blog technology usage stats from builtwith, wordpress is the #1 most popular blog software used by about 35% of blogs in the top 1 million sites. the same report shows blogger as the second most popular platform used by about 1% of the blogs in the top 1 million sites. we also compared the search terms ‘wordpress’ and ‘blogger’ in google trends to see users’ ‘interest over time.’ as shown in the screenshot above, wordpress steadily rose to popularity beating blogger by 2005. what is wordpress? wordpress is a free open source software which allows you to easily create a website, blog, or an online store. started in 2003, wordpress now powers more than 30% of all websites on the internet. you can download the wordpress software for free and use it unlimited on as many sites as you want. to create a blog in wordpress, you will need to buy a hosting plan and a domain name, so you can install wordpress. it sounds a bit complex at first; however, it is pretty simple with tons of user-friendly tutorials on wpbeginner and other sites. our team can even setup your wordpress blog for free. learn more about our free blog setup service. what is blogger? blogger is a free blogging service by google. started in 1999 by pyra labs, it was acquired by google in 2003, and they redesigned it as the product it is today. blogger is a free blog hosting service which lets you create a blog completely free of cost. you also get a free blogspot subdomain for your new blog. for example, your blog’s address will look like this: www.yourname.blogspot.com. however, you can also connect your blog with a custom domain name. for that, you need to register a domain name through third-party domain registrars. ease of use – blogger vs wordpress most users who want to create a blog are not web developers. they are passionate writers and storytellers, or they are non-techy business owners. an easy to use blogging platform can empower them to present their stories to the world. wordpress – ease of use setting up a blog in wordpress is a simple and quick process. it requires no coding skills, but it does require you to know how to point-and-click on a computer screen to setup wordpress and install wordpress apps. you can follow our step by step beginner’s guide on how to start a wordpress blog and you’ll be up and running in less than 30 minutes. once the setup is done, you can choose a wordpress blog theme as per your requirement. a theme mostly determines the appearance of your blog in wordpress. after that, you can install the best wordpress plugins to enhance your wordpress blog’s features. adding content to wordpress is simple with default posts and pages. you can easily create text content, add images, videos, and other media to your wordpress posts and pages using the simple block editor. blogger – ease of use blogger is a simple blogging platform where you can create a blog in just a few minutes. you simply need a google account to get started. go to blogger website and then sign up with your google account. after that, you can find a ‘create new blog’ option, where you need to click to start the process. next, choose your blog title, blog address, and a theme. that’s all, and the setup will be done. next, you can configure blog settings, edit your blog layout, and add posts. the setup process is pretty simple; however, blogger has some learning curve during theme customization. you cannot change much of the design unless you have some html skills. whereas in wordpress, you have drag and drop page builders that lets you customize everything. winner: tie. ownership – blogger vs wordpress ownership of your blog is another crucial aspect to consider while choosing a blog site. having full ownership of your blog gives you the freedom to do anything, including how to handle it, how to monetize it, and when to shut it down. who owns your blog on blogger? blogger is a blogging service provided by the tech giant google. it is free, reliable most of the time, and has enough features to publish your content on the web. however, it is not owned by you. google runs this service and has the right to shut it down or shut down your access to it at any time. it is a point to be noted that google has a history of abandoning projects without warning, such as feedburner. who owns your blog on wordpress? with wordpress, you use a wordpress hosting provider to host your site. you are free to decide how long you want to run it and when you want to shut it down. you own all your data, and you control what information you share with any third party. winner: wordpress. control and flexibility – blogger vs wordpress another important thing you need to consider is flexibility options. does your blog site let you fully control the design and functionalities of your blog? are you able to add new features to your blog? let’s see how blogger and wordpress compare on this aspect. control and flexibility with blogger blogger is a fine-tuned service with minimal tools allowing you to perform only specific tasks on your website. the things you can do on your blogspot blog are limited, and there is no way you can extend them. blogger has a set of built-in gadgets (similar to wordpress widgets) to add features like ads, subscription links, contact form, etc. but these gadgets have limited functionality, and there are no alternatives available for them. more frustrating is that advanced options like popups, ecommerce features, etc. aren’t available on the blogger platform. control and flexibility options with wordpress wordpress is an open source software, so you can easily extend it to add new features. you can add almost any functionality imaginable to your wordpress blog with plugins and third-party integrations. there are thousands of free and premium wordpress plugins which allow you to modify and extend the default features. for example, adding a store to your website, creating a portfolio, making popups, adding social share buttons, etc. if you visit the plugins page on wordpress.org, then you can find over 55,000+ free plugins there. if you have coding skills, then you can also create your own custom plugins and use on your blog. when comparing wordpress vs blogger for flexibility and customization options, then wordpress is hands down the best long-term solution for any serious blogger/business owner. winner: wordpress. appearance and design options the appearance or the design of your blog plays a vital role in attracting users and engaging them on your site. you need an elegant blog design to engage users, reduce bounce rate, and improve the time spent on your blog. blog design options in blogger blogger, by default, only provides a limited set of templates to use. these templates look basic as they have been used on thousands of blogs. you can modify the colors and layout of these templates using the built-in tools, but you cannot create your own layouts or make modifications. there are some non-official blogger templates available, but those templates are usually very low quality. fewer templates, basic customization options, and lack of layout choices make blogger seriously fall behind in terms of design choices. blog design options in wordpress in wordpress, there are thousands of free and premium wordpress themes which allow you to create professional-looking websites. there is a wordpress theme for just about every kind of website. no matter what your site is about, you will find plenty of high-quality themes which are easy to modify and customize. you can find a collection of 7000+ free wordpress themes on the official wordpress.org themes page. you can search ‘blog’ to view the themes designed for blogs. when we searched, we found more than 2000 free blog themes. and, you can get more themes from third-party theme providers like elegant themes, themify and astra themes. not only that, you can use the simple drag and drop wordpress page builders to design stunning landing pages easily in wordpress. you can even create your own custom wordpress themes without writing any code. winner: wordpress. security – wordpress vs blogger security is another essential aspect you need to consider while selecting your blog platform. unless you pick a secure platform, your investment and time can go to waste if your site is blacklisted or hacked. managing security in blogger using blogger, you have the added advantage of google’s robust, secure platform. you don’t need to worry about managing your server’s resources, securing your blog, or creating backups. but it also means that an entire service downtime will turn down your blog as well. you cannot do anything to resume your blog when the blogger site is down. managing security in wordpress wordpress is quite secure, but since it is a self-hosted solution you are responsible for security and backups. there are plenty of wordpress plugins that make it easier for you. for example, you can use updraftplus or vaultpress for creating a backup, and sucuri for web-application firewall to improve site security. for complete guide on managing security in wordpress, see our ultimate wordpress security guide. winner: tie. support – wordpress vs blogger support is another critical factor to consider while choosing your blog platform. check whether there is a reliable support system to help you out when you need it. support options in blogger there is limited support available for blogger. they have very basic documentation and a user’s forum. in terms of support, your choices are very limited. you can click on the help option in your blogger admin panel to see support tutorials as shown in the image below. since it is a free service, it is not possible for google to provide adequate support to individual blog owners. support options in wordpress wordpress has a very active community support system. there are question-answer forums for each theme and plugin on wordpress.org. for example, this is the official support forum of the popular coming soon plugin seedprod. if you are using paid wordpress products, then you can get even more dedicated support from the respective product companies. plus, you can find online documentation, community forums, and irc chatrooms, where you can get help from experienced wordpress users and developers. our team of wordpress experts is also helping thousands of users via our facebook group. apart from community support, there are many companies offering premium support for wordpress. check out our guide on how to properly ask for wordpress support and get it. winner: wordpress. future – blogger vs wordpress the future of your blogging platform determines how far you can go with your blog. future of your blog on blogger blogger has not seen any major update since a very long time. we have seen google kill their popular services such as google reader, google adsense for feeds, and feedburner. future of blogger depends on google, and they have the right to shut it down whenever they want. so, the future of your blog also depends on google’s decisions. future of your blog on wordpress wordpress is an open source software which means its future is not dependent on one company or individual (check out the history of wordpress). it is managed by a community of developers and users. being the world’s most popular content management system, thousands of businesses around the globe depend on it. the future of wordpress is bright and reassuring. winner: wordpress. portability – wordpress vs blogger the purpose of this article is to help you choose the best platform, so you don’t need to move your site. but mistakes can happen. so, it is essential to check whether your blog platform has secure options to move to another platform or not. portability of your blogger blog moving your site from blogger to a different platform is a complicated task. there is a significant risk that you will lose your seo (search engine rankings), subscribers, and followers during the move. even though blogger allows you to export your content, your data will stay on google’s servers for a very long time. portability of your wordpress blog using wordpress, you can move your site anywhere you want. you can move your wordpress site to a new host, change domain name, or even move your site to other content management systems. also, if you compare wordpress vs blogger seo, then wordpress offers way more seo advantages. winner: wordpress. pricing – blogger vs wordpress last but not least, comparing the cost of creating a blog and managing it is crucial. cost of making a blog in blogger blogger is an entirely free blogging service. it provides free blog hosting and free blogspot subdomain to get started. and, all the themes, gadgets, and other options are free as well. if you want to use a custom domain name, then you will have to buy it from a domain registration company like domain.com. a domain name typically costs $14.99 per year, but you can get a discount with our domain.com coupon code. blogger platform is very cost-effective however it lacks many features you will need to make your blog successful. cost of making a blog in wordpress wordpress software is free, but you need to buy a hosting plan and domain name to start a blog. with bluehost, you can get a wordpress hosting plan for just $2.75 per month and a free domain along with it. once the setup is done, the cost entirely depends on the services you want to use. if you’re going to use paid themes and plugins, then the cost of making a blog will go higher. for more details, see our complete guide on how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website. winner: tie. conclusion: blogger vs wordpress – which one is better? wordpress and blogger both are widely used blog platforms. but since you need to choose one, it comes down to the purpose of your blog entirely. if your goal is to make a personal blog and share your stories, then you can choose a simple platform like blogger. but if you aim to make a professional blog which can earn a living, then you need a robust and scalable platform like wordpress. with wordpress, you can add a shop to your blog, create membership website, and add tons of marketing tools to your blog, and earn money. we hope this wordpress vs blogger comparison helped you understand the pros and cons of each and helped you make the right decision for your blog. to learn more about wordpress, we recommend you to read our guide on why is wordpress free? and 9 most common misconceptions about wordpress. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.4k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 187 commentsleave a reply rahul says: jun 24, 2019 at 10:20 pm nice explaination reply wpbeginner support says: jun 25, 2019 at 11:51 am thank you reply keyur says: apr 28, 2019 at 11:33 am wordpress is the most popular and best platform for us. it has better customization and features. now i want to shift my blog blogspot to wordpress. please tell me how i downgrade my wordpress version because i hate wordpress latest version 5.0 regards keyur reply wpbeginner support says: apr 29, 2019 at 11:12 am if you mean you want to use the classic editor again, you can do so using our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-disable-gutenberg-and-keep-the-classic-editor-in-wordpress/ reply lou says: jan 4, 2019 at 3:25 pm which platform is best for starting a online clothing business? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 8, 2019 at 10:02 am for that question you may want to take a look at this other comparison: https://www.wpbeginner.com/opinion/shopify-vs-woocommerce-which-is-the-better-platform-comparison/ reply rasool zada says: dec 20, 2018 at 7:09 am for the beginners and low knowledge people in blogging i recommended for them blogger. blogger is very very best for them reply rajendra singh says: dec 17, 2018 at 10:05 am i started a blog on google blogspot but till date unable to monetize it with google. now i plan to start a new blog. but i am unable to decide to choose which platform for it. can i easily monetize my blog with wordpress or i have to go again with google blogspot? reply wpbeginner support says: dec 17, 2018 at 3:38 pm hi rajendra, wordpress is better if you want to monetize your website. it gives you more options and ways to monetize your content. reply jason says: dec 9, 2018 at 6:52 am the thing is, it depends on your definition of quality and how you would want your website to be. my requirements for my websites are pretty high so i prefer wordpress. though costly, it enables you to customize major things fairly easily but with blogger youve got to have major coding skills to make design tweaks. except ofcourse you use the default templates provided my blogger. and for me those templates are really really lame. if you dont want a lame theme you download from third-party sites and you need to a ton of coding skills to customize it. if youre blogging for the fun of it, use blogger with the default themes, they’ll suit your need. but if youre looking to start a business, wordpress is the way to go. it’ll make your life easier. reply gin florita says: dec 6, 2018 at 11:12 pm still, blogger is a lot better than wordpress. wordpress sucks your wallet for plugins. while blogger is 100% free and have a very fast server. google protects all blogger users. reply mia says: dec 3, 2018 at 12:52 am i have a question/comment… i am paying for hosting on mydomain… and practically every few weeks they are sending me emails that there is hacked or virus code on my account, and when i take it off my site breaks… i use wordpress, but hosted by them… any ideas or input on this issue? that is why i’m thinking about just hosting on wordpress free and forwarding… i’m tired of this garbage…. reply nikita says: nov 15, 2018 at 6:11 am blogger is better than wordpress reply anna says: dec 4, 2018 at 2:30 am i definitely agree. much easier to use and personally, i can’t stand all the extra features of wordpress. reply nick says: dec 16, 2018 at 6:00 am blogger is *simpler* than wordpress. it’s like using an instagram filter vs adobe photoshop — the filter is quick but you have no real control over the finished product. photoshop is what a professional uses. it just depends on your needs. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 17, 2018 at 4:20 pm hey nick, we would disagree with your analogy. wordpress currently powers more than 32% of all websites on the internet. most of them are created by beginners and non-technical users. naman modi says: nov 9, 2018 at 8:16 am thanks for the article, this helped me a lot. sir, please continue posting wonderful information reply guen valle says: oct 10, 2018 at 4:48 pm i prefer blogger. i purchased my domain at godaddy for $1 as a trial for 1 year. mapped in on blogger for free. if you’re just into writing stuffs and showing pics and vids, use blogger. so simple to use. i just want to know now how i can add traffic to it. sorry, new to blogging. haha! reply f. dela cruz says: oct 2, 2018 at 10:55 pm my blogger has been in bloggger for 6 years now, no problem about hosting fees, i’ve learned also how to customize its template it’s all around here on the web. cheers! happy earning reply stephen sovie says: sep 29, 2018 at 2:53 pm i’ve been with blogger for many years, but have been considering starting a wordpress blog, on and off. the major reason why i don’t start the wordpress blog is that i won’t be able to use adsense on the blog. as i do now with blogger. wordpress seems to favor those blogs with already high traffic and bloggers with money to spend. i don’t like to be penalized for wishing to make some pocket change. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 1, 2018 at 12:26 am hi stephen, you are confusing wordpress.com with wordpress.org. you can use adsense with self-hosted wordpress.org websites without any restrictions. please see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. reply claudia guerr says: sep 26, 2018 at 9:48 am i use blogger and wp, but i prefer blogger now, more easy, don´t need to worry about updates, can customize the themes by myself. wp became expensive this days. reply zsuzsa karoly-smith says: jul 6, 2018 at 4:58 am if you’re a complete novice and blogging is just a hobby for you, i would always recommend blogger as it works out of the box. wp needs more technical knowledge as the free templates are very limited in terms of functionality and customization options. i used to have a wp blog but switched to blogger after i discovered how much easier it was to customize the free templates. i’ve had my blogger blog for 4 years and i’m very happy with it. reply vimal kumar says: jun 25, 2018 at 4:51 am enough description to understand comparison. reply luigi barney says: jun 18, 2018 at 9:37 pm i’m a newbie and am taking a course in google analytics. are you able to edit the pages’ code or insert google analytics code in blogger? thanks reply naomi mohmed says: jun 16, 2018 at 1:09 am thanks sir this really helped me for someone who is really new to blogging,but i really prefer blogger and it is much easier to use reply ashika gowde says: may 21, 2018 at 7:49 am i m a weblog novice so i m glad i found this site it’s helping me a lot. thanks for your site, it is very beneficial. reply edward lemos says: may 17, 2018 at 2:41 am i m a blog beginner so i m glad i found this site its helping me a lot. thanks for your site, its very helpful. reply skye evans says: apr 23, 2018 at 9:04 pm hello and thanks for your advice. i’m ,100% new to blogging so i’m unsure of how domain names work and some of the lingo . ive been using facebook to voice my opinions and an impressed friend said start a blog (witch i thought was a audio thing spoken articles and essays you can listen to when hands are busy is this true? i understand i need to find blogging for dummies . one more thing you didn’t address in your comparison was how and if you can make money on wordpress or blogger .?? thanks for your time. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 25, 2018 at 7:43 pm hi skye, please see our guide on how to start a blog. reply saurabh mangar says: mar 24, 2018 at 1:41 am i have my blog on wordpress then i bought domain from godaddy while mapping it on my blog wordpress asked for 96$/per yr which is a lot and i cant afford it… now i am feeling demotivate what should i do? now thinking about transfer my blog to blogger but still confused.. please help reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2018 at 3:52 pm hi saurabh, you can start a wordpress blog using self hosted wordpress.org you can even use the same domain you purchased earlier. just select i already have a domain name during the sign up. reply emin qasim says: mar 17, 2018 at 1:20 pm the future of blogger is bright. and i don’t think that google will shut down blogger. blogger will be whenever google be reply rizwan says: feb 8, 2018 at 3:47 am i have a domain and using blogspot then what is option. reply rizwan says: jan 23, 2018 at 1:43 am i am using blogspot last two years but my traffic is zero.please kindly tell me how to increase traffic or move to wordpress for traffic thank you reply wpbeginner support says: jan 25, 2018 at 12:52 am hello rizwan, adding useful, original, and helpful content regularly to your blog will help you gain traffic in the long run. wordpress can be helpful in that as it has tons of plugins that can help you promote your blog more efficiently. see our tips on getting more traffic to your new wordpress blog. reply rizwan says: jan 30, 2018 at 9:25 am sir but wordpress is very expensive reply wpbeginner support says: jan 30, 2018 at 6:35 pm hi rizwan, wordpress itself is free, however you will need web hosting and domain name. see our guide on cost of a wordpress website for a break down of the costs and how to keep your wordpress site under the budget. prajith says: dec 21, 2017 at 11:48 pm how to export content from blogger and import it into wordpress ? reply andrew says: dec 4, 2017 at 3:30 am dude!! i started using word press. but im pretty disappointed. everything is about plugins. i hate those!! until i came to know about blogger. i saw that blogger is way better than wordpress choose blogger. when u become a millionaire then try wordpress reply bluetech bluetech says: dec 4, 2017 at 2:06 am its bits of help only beginner to learn how to blogs and everything but quit modification needed. reply kumar says: oct 17, 2017 at 10:56 am hi, people says that it is hard to rank a blog with blogger . is this right ? please reply your opinion . reply g songate says: nov 24, 2017 at 3:12 pm no… it depends on your contents and google webmaster setting. reply usama says: sep 7, 2017 at 8:38 am i believe you are writing about the disadvantage of blogger while the comment section is totally against your information. i wish you could calm done to write the real pros and cons for both platforms because it’s really looking biased. i am a big fan of blogger. reply manishac says: nov 30, 2017 at 5:09 am wrong! blogger is much better than wordpress in terms of look, option, easy to use and most important is that it gets much more traffic 5han wordpress which you may end up to 0 traffic! i have both for 5 years, i strongly reccommend blogspot! reply rahul bisht says: aug 14, 2017 at 1:22 pm hi bloggers, i want to move my selfhosted wordpress blog to blogger because hosting is too costly. how can i do it. reply rachel says: aug 3, 2017 at 6:20 am hi i quite new to blogging, may i know what happens if google chooses to shut down blogger? will all our content disappear or will it still be there for us to transfer? if not, how do we handle it? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 3, 2017 at 11:59 pm hi rachel, if google ever decides to shutdown blogger, they will announce it. you will get a chance to transfer your content elsewhere. on the other hand, if google found that your content violates their terms of service, then they may block it. in this case, you may or may not get a chance to transfer your content. reply faraz naeem says: jul 30, 2017 at 7:27 pm this is very helpfull article. i was start my website on blogger but now i will choose wordpress. thanks alot. reply mxolisi says: jul 26, 2017 at 6:27 am thank you a lot for this insightful information. i am planning to start a blog very soon and i was seriously considering the blogger, but now i will use wordpress. reply mohit patil says: jul 17, 2017 at 10:56 am now i have migrate my website from blogger to wordpress from 1 month and i get best results by choose wordpress. i get more traffic on wordpress than blogspot platform. thanx sir for giving us best advice. reply saurabh mangar says: mar 24, 2018 at 1:36 am when you transfer it how much money you spend on wordpress?? reply dave says: jul 17, 2017 at 12:13 am i think it’s a nice article. wordpress is certainly better especially for big brands. i’m currently using blogger. reply jimmy montague says: jul 16, 2017 at 7:27 am anybody who writes adult fiction these days is bound to use an obscenity now and then. google should change the name of their platform from “blogger” to “bowdlerizer” because google employs merciless content cops who will cut any blog author off at the knees if they (the cops) don’t like his/her language. i don’t know about the rest of you. as for me: i enjoy input from competent, thoughtful and creative editors, but i will not be censored by any stupid, blue-nosed word cop who seeks to improve life on this planet by treating all web content as if it were kiddie lit. for that reason alone i say “blogger stinks, and anybody who places him/herself at the mercy of blogger bowdlerizers will eventually get what he/she accepted by signing onto blogger in the first place. moving content you’ve written and posted over the span of a year or two is no fun, so just stay away from blogger — or from any other outfit that thinks the web should read like a sunday-school tract or that advertisers should always get exactly what they want. reply kari says: jun 22, 2017 at 10:43 am blogger can be totally custom designed and in some cases has more autonomy than wordpress. i design in both. i have business clients with completely custom sites using blogger as well as a lot of clients in wordpress. i do like wordpress and my personal sites are wp but this article is misleading. no one would ever know my clients with blogger are using blogger. i wrote all the custom theme myself. there is one benefit of blogger, as well. it’s owned by google and will generally be easier to get good seo results without all the seo plugins and tricks you have to resort to with wordpress. reply emily says: jun 28, 2017 at 8:02 pm thanks for saying that! i’ve been writing in blogger for nearly 9 years. the statements made about the platform might have been true years ago, but these days you wouldn’t know my blog from a wordpress blog. plus since i’ve been there for so long and have built myself up in googles search i’m afraid to leave it and risk the major change… for what… costing me more per year to blog? nope. reply emily says: jun 28, 2017 at 8:03 pm might i add i’ve written in both platforms. reply carol says: nov 1, 2017 at 10:10 am i completely agree. i have several blogs on blogger and have been using it for years. i have customized my site with my own photos as background images. this article was very misleading. for free, there is no better place to blog than at blogger.com. reply kübra says: jun 6, 2017 at 6:24 am of course,blogger is better. reply emmanuel says: jun 5, 2017 at 9:07 pm this is a nice article. i am new to this, and will be needing your help on how to go about blogging. i met with a web designer to open and design a blog for me. but i still can’t differentiate between ‘wordpress’ and ‘blogspot’. with all the earlier comments, i think i grab some things. please, how does each of these two pay? what is the capacity ( the highest number of visitors) of the two? thanks. reply jaison says: jun 25, 2017 at 1:18 am ‘wordpress’ and ‘blogspot’ are just two blogging options. if you are just starting off i would recommend the blogspot, which is also known as blogger. once you are familiar with blogger than you can move on to wordpress. reply james says: may 13, 2017 at 10:46 am i think the aim of this article has been achieved, the writer wants us all commenting and arguing and we have all done that. after reading the article and comments i am still not satisfy. total waste of precious time. i am more confuse than i was before i came here. reply nate ocean says: may 12, 2017 at 1:20 pm i want to make some rather technical blogs with diagrams and graphs and tables of numbers. i tried a few experiments with using the wordpress publishing via microsoft word, and it seems to address some of my concerns. perhaps more experienced users can comment on this. both wordpress and blogger seem to describe using an application (such as excel or google spreadsheet) to create a graph, and then essentially making a screen shot and pasting that into the blog program. so the graph is really just an image. same goes for a table of numbers. it’s a *picture* of a table of numbers (which is hard for blog readers to copy into their own program should they want to play with the data). using microsoft word, the graph or table is apparently an embedded object in my document. so if i spot an error, or want to update a table or enhance a chart, when i click on it, word launches excel, and i make the edit. then back in word i click publish, and the wordpress page is updated. that’s very convenient for what i anticipate. also, since the blog posts are essentially maintained on my pc as microsoft word documents, i think that makes it slightly more transportable than when it’s stuck on a blog service. also, are some blog services particularly good or bad about math equations or special characters. i’m so sick of reading stuff that has been cut and paste from another location and all the special symbols get trashed. reply urgesh rajwade says: apr 3, 2017 at 11:06 pm actually i think blogger is better reply scott says: apr 1, 2017 at 3:56 pm i just started to blog and to choose from blogger or wordpress. with incomplete information, i have wasted 40 or so dollars on both sites. here are some information based on my experience. blogger does have fewer features and less attractive interface. wordpress has a better looking and user-friendly interface. having your own domain is more expensive on wordpress (about $26/yr) than google ($12). and if you wanna use your existing domain, you need to pay about $70/yr to map it into wordpress. in addition, text size in wordpress is hard to manage and understand, e.g. heading font size smaller than body font size. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 2, 2017 at 5:57 pm hi scott, you can get a domain name for far lower prices. $70/year is not for mapping wordpress, you are probably talking about wordpress hosting. as for font sizes, wordpress offers multiple ways to change that. see our article on how to change font size in wordpress. reply dumdum-salamandra says: mar 31, 2017 at 5:49 am blogger, then tumblr, then wordpress, then own site. leveling up reply mike says: mar 4, 2017 at 5:15 am i use blogger, it gives me all that i need and i use free blogger templates,. they are easy to install and alter as i need. i don’t monetise my blog so i’m happy enough with just being able to post updates, pics and videos…. if i decide to see if i can get an income i feel it will be easy enough to do that with advertising. only downside is support, the support forums are populated by self important asshats, much as the linux support forums, but i usually can work things out with a mug of coffee and a couple of cigs reply tina says: mar 23, 2017 at 4:56 am lol, one time, i hated blogger. i was a xanga user back then and blogging was something only high school kids did. but now i love blogger. i have been using it for almost 5 years. i recently opened a a site with wordpress and oh my, it makes blogger look like a gift from god. i haven’t used the forum of blogger. usually, the non google tech experts come to my rescue when i email them about an issue. they are very willing to help. blogger taught me html, css and much more. but when it comes to wordpress, i sometimes feel like tearing my hair. some articles even those found on this site are notorious for crashing sites. i wish blogger could allow us to have ecommerce sites. i know it is possible right now, but it needs some more work. reply vx says: jan 2, 2017 at 5:52 pm i don’t think google can just easily face out blogger. at least in my own opinion. reply x o m says: nov 22, 2016 at 7:52 am you are required to earn only $5 before you will be paid. we can pay all users via their paypal. reply undeadbobop says: nov 19, 2016 at 1:41 pm what he isn’t telling you is vanilla free wordpress isn’t good at all, it is absolutely terrible. yes it hands down has more templates, but they all are in the same ball park in terms of functionality, hardily usable. as for seo he really lacks a huge chunk of knowledge as he thinks it only has to deal with search engine ranking when it has to deal with being optimized for various search engines not just a google webmaster account, but how a search engine grabs your data with crawlers and sitemaps. as for customization and control blogger has that too, you can even make your own templates and they provide you documentation to do so, as for updates there have been quiet a few just this year to add functionality to settings such as a domain option to purchase a new domain with more options. as for “plugins” and “widgets” just call them “gadgets” and you have blogger terminology. compare free blogger vs free wordpress and you will quickly see which one is more customizable with more options and more functionality usage along with better seo. page ranking is just one small old practice of seo, it is a thing still but it plays little in the effect of the whole scope of what seo is as you first must worry about how a web broswer collects your website data including pages, and meta data. reply brian says: nov 24, 2016 at 11:47 am i love it when the comment section tells you more than the article itself. reply heba says: mar 11, 2017 at 7:10 am haha yeah me too that is why i usually don’t focus on blogs kr articles with no comment section reply nopies says: dec 29, 2016 at 3:14 pm me too, brian. thank you, undeadbobop. reply raihan says: nov 17, 2016 at 8:59 am i would like to add one thing more that blogger is also one of leading feature which one is powered by google but comparably, wordpress is better than blogger. i am also big follower of wordpress. your post is truly a guide for me. reply « 1 2 3 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) rafflepress coupon get 20% off rafflepress, the best wordpress giveaway and contest plugin available in the market. elegant themes deal get the divi theme with 100+ template website packs from elegant themes for only $89. extra, bloom, and monarch are included free! featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.