wordpress themes wordpress hosting wp 101 blog about contact wordpress themes, plugins, and tutorials wphub offers handpicked themes, plugins, hosting, and customization. view the themes new: fairinternetreport themes wordpress tutorials hosting wordpress essentials about wordpress wordpress was first released in may of 2003 and has gone on to become the most popular website platform in existence. in fact, wordpress powers 23.3% of all websites on the internet! wordpress started primarily as a content management system (cms) and blogging platform. however, as wordpress gained popularity as a platform, themes started being released to turn wordpress into a corporate, portfolio, wedding, hotel, travel, reservation, photography, resume, baby shower, or just about any other type of website you can think of. that’s because wordpress has amazing versatility and is relatively easy to use. with millions of installations, the community has exploded with literally millions of wordpress themes and plugins. with these themes and plugins the limits of wordpress are constantly being pushed and who knows how far wordpress can go over the next couple of years. about wphub wphub got its start in 2010 as a wordpress themes directory, but quickly took off to include plugins, tutorials, hosting, and other services. today wphub is a premier wordpress themes and plugins marketplace that also offers other services such as wordpress hosting and wordpress customizations. we pride ourselves on being the easiest theme marketplace to navigate, but we’re most proud of the customer service we provide. with over 1,000,000 wordpress themes available for sale, or for free, not every theme is created equally. wphub hand-screens every theme to ensure it’s malware free, written to strict code standards, is finely tuned for seo, and works as advertised. the fine print finally, we need to mention that wphub is not owned, sponsored, monitored, or approved by the wordpress foundation. all wordpress themes and plugins sold on wphub are not owned by wphub, but sold with permission and in cooperation with their respective authors. all products sold on wphub come with one year of technical support. write for us what is gpl? faqs privacy policy terms & conditions