main navigation main navigation menu wordpress.com wordpress.com icon & logo. products features resources plans & pricing log in get started menu blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise overview themes plugins google apps support news expert tips navigation menu close menu get started add a new site › sign up › log in › about plans & pricing products blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise features overview themes plugins google apps resources news support expert tips 36% of the web is built on wordpress. unlock the power of the most flexible website builder. start your website build a site. sell your stuff. start a blog. and so much more. all on build simply. create any kind of website. no code, no manuals, no limits. stand out with professionally-designed themes. no matter your site or your style, there’s a beautiful, pro layout waiting for you. find your theme › design without a designer. photo carousels, tiled image galleries, maps, forms — add them to your site with a click and know they’ll look great. build with blocks. insert text, photos, forms, yelp reviews, testimonials, maps, and more. move them. delete them. play until it’s perfect. you already know how to do it! start building › start your website grow without limits. the potential for a bigger and better site — and a bigger and better audience — is built right in. plugins infinite combinations, infinite possibility. thousands of easy‑to‑install add‑ons mean you’ll never outgrow your website. collect leads, create contact forms, create subscriptions, automatically backup your site, and a whole lot more. no matter what you want to do, there’s a plugin for that. ecommerce turn your site into a store. showcase your products and services. accept one‑time or recurring payments. and do it all globally. whether you’re selling studded cat collars or ongoing access to your content, do it with a completely customizable ecommerce platform that lets you open shop and grow your store alongside your business. built‑in marketing find your fans. rely on built‑in seo tools, mailchimp, google analytics integrations, and more to market what you make. it’s everything you need to find your audience, market smarter, and put your website front and center. mobile apps take the best website builder anywhere with you everywhere. keep tabs on your site with real‑time notifications and analytics. or publish a post, manage sales, reply to comments, update your homepage — all from your phone, tablet, or browser. download our apps: ios / android › start your website you’re covered. your website is just the beginning. we’ve got the service and tools you need to keep growing. real support from real people. we’ll help you get started, customize your site, and add features with 1‑on‑1 quickstart sessions, live chat, or email. domains for anything. from .com to .club, or whatever else you can dream up, there’s a memorable — and apt! — domain for your site. find your domain › plans for everyone. we’ve got plans for book clubs, businesspeople, bird fanciers, bond impersonators, bed and breakfast owners, and anyone else who wants to get online. explore plans › serious security. your wordpress.com site runs on the best wordpress hosting environment on earth. no patches, no upgrades, no‑nonsense, no matter the plan. start your website free to start, with 4 ways to grow. whether you want to share your ideas, start a business, or run a store, you can do it all on wordpress.com. free best for getting started $0 for life start with free create a beautiful, simple website in minutes. free best for getting started $0 for life start with free create a beautiful, simple website in minutes. personal best for personal use $5 per month, billed yearly start with personal add some personality to your website with a custom domain and access to 24/7 support. popular premium best for freelancers $8 per month, billed yearly start with premium build a unique site with advanced design tools, custom css, and google analytics support. business best for small businesses $25 per month, billed yearly start with business power your business with custom plugins & themes, 200 gb storage, and live support. ecommerce best for online stores $45 per month, billed yearly start with ecommerce open your online store with a powerful, flexible platform designed to grow with you. compare our plans › need an enterprise solution? wordpress vip provides everything you need to build and run best-in-class customer experiences at scale. plans start at $1,700/month.learn more › contact us to learn more. tell us about your goals and needs and a representative will contact you shortly. ready to get started? tell us about your needs. thank you for contacting us. we’ll be in touch with you shortly. first name * last name * work email * phone number company title/position industry message send go back to wordpress.com bottom navigation links other wordpress solutions jetpack plugin woocommerce pressable (managed wordpress) vip (enterprise wordpress) developers wordpress.com for students explore news discover go: growth content desktop apps mobile apps community support forums wordcamps wordpress.org company about us privacy terms of service matt mullenweg partner with us bottom navigation menu themes features blog stats vip terms of service privacy policy language: en an automattic mambo an automattic mambo