bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr build it fast with blue flash. the web is waiting to see your business, your blog and your big ideas. so get up and running quickly with free, expert guidance from our wordpress experts. free with hosting powering over 2 million websites worldwide get started with wordpress skip the learning curve and get an efficient start to your wordpress experience, including dashboard walkthroughs, account setup, and more; a full-featured wordpress orientation. selecting an appropriate theme leverage the guidance of wordpress experts to ensure your site utilizes the best possible wordpress theme relative not only to your website's purpose, but also your own style. installing the correct plugins our wordpress setup service even helps you avoid the hassle and uncertainty of plugin selection and installation. we'll make sure you've got the best plugins for your website. choose your hosting plan pick the hosting plan that's right for you and let our blue flash experts provide the help you need to get started. basic ca$5.30/mo* normally ca$10.72 select 1 website 50 gb ssd storage unmetered bandwidth free ssl certificate standard performance 1 included domain 5 parked domains 25 subdomains plus ca$7.98/mo* normally ca$14.74 select unlimited websites unlimited ssd storage unmetered bandwidth free ssl certificate standard performance unlimited domains unlimited parked domains unlimited subdomains $200 marketing offer spam experts 1 office 365 mailbox - free 30 days choice plus ca$9.32/mo* normally ca$20.11 select unlimited websites unlimited ssd storage unmetered bandwidth free ssl certificate standard performance unlimited domains unlimited parked domains unlimited subdomains $200 marketing offer spam experts domain privacy + protection site backup - codeguard basic 1 office 365 mailbox - free 30 days pro ca$18.71/mo* normally ca$32.18 select unlimited websites unlimited ssd storage unmetered bandwidth free ssl certificate high performance unlimited domains unlimited parked domains unlimited subdomains $200 marketing offer 2 spam experts domain privacy + protection site backup - codeguard basic dedicated ip 1 office 365 mailbox - free 30 days have a question? bluehost supports over 2 million websites worldwide. let our experts help you effectively build, grow, and manage your wordpress website. 888-401-4678 chat frequently asked questions what is blue flash? for all bluehost customers looking to leverage the power and flexibility of wordpress but aren't sure how to get started, bluehost provides a free service that assists with getting started on the right track. blue flash is designed to help each customer with getting familiar with both the bluehost and wordpress dashboard, as well as help customers select the correct theme and plugins for their website needs. you will work with trained wordpress experts to learn the basic elements of wordpress so that you can start building your ideal website quickly and correctly. how does blue flash help me select the right theme? working with your blue flash specialist is often completed over the phone. the wordpress expert will talk to you about the purpose of your website and what you hope to accomplish with it. then the wordpress expert will align with you on common wordpress themes that are best suited for your websites type. for example, if you are running a ecommerce website, the specialist will demonstrate common ecommerce themes for you to choose from. or if your website is a photography portfolio, the wordpress expert will assist you with selecting the theme that best fits your style. how does blue flash help me select the right plugin? depending on what functionality you want your website to have, our wordpress experts will walk you through a variety of options and recommend plugins that are stable and secure. there are many plugins available for wordpress users, blue flash helps you narrow down which ones are right for your website by working with you directly and showing you how to navigate the plugin marketplace while also providing consultation on which plugins are proven to be effective. how do i contact blue flash? after creating a bluehost account, simply contact our 24/7 support team via 888-401-4678 and ask to begin your blue flash call. all bluehost support representatives have been trained on the best practices for getting started with wordpress, and will be able to assist with navigating the bluehost and wordpress dashboards, as well as assist you with selecting the right themes and plugins for your wordpress website. what if i need more wordpress support? in addition to providing free 24/7 customer support for bluehost account related issues, bluehost also offers advanced wordpress support called blue sky. this service is designed to help you with detailed wordpress questions once your website is live and visible to visitors. from editing, customizing, and managing themes, to assistance with growing your traffic and optimizing the content on your website, blue sky provides more in-depth wordpress assistance than blue flash. for $99/month, blue sky support is perfect for anyone who wants a team of wordpress experts always on call even after their website has launched. learn more about blue sky support here. × usage policies how much disk space and bandwidth is included with my plan? for packages supporting unmetered disk space or data transfer (bandwidth), we do not have defined limitations. these resources are "unmetered", meaning you are not billed according to the amount of disk space or bandwidth used. while of course these resources are not infinite, we believe our customers should have all the resources necessary to build an online presence and 99.95% of customers will have more than enough disk space and bandwidth to meet their needs. that said, we do require all customers to be fully compliant with our terms of service and utilize disk space and bandwidth in a manner consistent with the normal operation of a website. while rare, we occasionally constrain accounts utilizing more resources than should be the case in the normal operation of a personal or small business website. how do you determine "normal" operation? we regularly examine customer bandwidth and disk space utilization data in a series of statistical analyses and use the results to define "normal". although these tests vary from month to month, one thing remains constant: 99.95% of our customers fall into "normal" range. if your account's bandwidth or disk space utilization causes any concern, you will receive an email asking you to reduce usage. we strive to provide at least 48 hours notice to allow customers to make adjustments before we take any corrective action. it is very rare for a customer to exceed normal usage while managing a website. typically, customers only experience issues if they use their accounts for storage (for example large multimedia files) or file sharing. our hosting services are not intended to support these activities, and in accordance with our terms of service your disk space and bandwidth usage must be integrated into the normal operation of a website. we offer various plans that better address high bandwidth and large storage requirements. please contact us for details. what constraints exist on websites, domain names, or email? for plans or packages featuring unlimited websites, domains, or email accounts, we do not enforce any official limitations. customers are able to utilize as many of these features as they wish. that said, these are of course not infinite resources and there are inherent maximums associated with the technology powering them. for example, while email account creation is unlimited, these rely on the file storage available on the account. therefore customers need to be operating within the terms of service to ensure resources are available to fully enable email functionality. customers operating within the terms of service have yet to come up against technical boundaries for email, domains, or websites. × office 365 mailbox this plan includes 1 microsoft office 365 email essentials license, free for 30 days with the purchase of a hosting plan. your office 365 email essentials license will automatically renew monthly at the current renewal price until cancelled. you can cancel your automatic renewal at any time online or by phone. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.