wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » opinion » wordpress vs ghost – which is better? wordpress vs ghost – which is better? last updated on september 8th, 2016 by editorial staff 137 shares share tweet share pin are you looking to start a blog? not sure whether you should use ghost or wordpress as your blogging platform? in this article, we will do a detailed comparison of ghost and wordpress, highlighting strengths and weaknesses, so you can decide which is the better platform for you when it comes to wordpress vs ghost. note: this is not a comparison of the hosted version of ghost and wordpress.com. this is a comparison of the open source cms ghost and wordpress.org first impressions and user interface ghost’s dashboard is very straight-forward and easy to understand. after you log in, the first thing you see is your most recent content (if you just installed it, the demo content is included with ghost. the menu has 3 options in it, content, new post and settings. this makes you feel instantly prepared to go ahead and write your first post. wordpress’s dashboard has a lot more options, and might be a little more intimidating for new users. you can still easily navigate your way to creating new posts, editing content and other things, but the interface is not as clean. overall ghost’s dashboard looks slightly cleaner, and might be easier for complete beginners to get used to (except for maybe the markdown writing method) than wordpress’s, while wordpress offers more options and flexibility. winner: ghost speed straight out of the box, ghost scores slightly better for speed tests and google page insights. there is, however, little in way of beginner-friendly improvements to be made to loading speed after that point. but with wordpress, there are a lot of plugins that can help you out in this area. when you add a caching plugins like w3 total cache, wordpress ends up with the speed advantage. winner: tie community being the veteran and more popular choice, obviously wordpress has a larger and more established community. this means that not only can you do just about anything you want with wordpress, someone else have already done it, and written a tutorial about it (hint: wpbeginner). it’s also very easy to get personal help solving wordpress related problems from other wordpress users, simply because there’s so many of them. comparatively speaking ghost has a smaller community and support forums. there are dedicated users that help answer questions and write some relevant guides, but there’s not the same cloud of guides, tips and ideas that you have out there for wordpress. winner: wordpress design and layout options the default themes for wordpress and ghost are not too different. simple, functional, and beautiful. outside of that, wordpress has a lot more variety to offer than ghost in this department. a simple byproduct of there being a lot more wordpress themes than ghost themes available. a great thing about a lot of wordpress themes is that you can have a surprising degree of creative control over the design of your site, without having to hard-code anything. from within the theme customizer, you can often change color schemes, backgrounds, fonts, container sizes and other things, small and big. on top of that, there are many drag-and-drop themes and plugins for wordpress that you can use to easily create different kinds of pages, from portfolio to about, to landing pages. for ghost, you have limited options as it is very blog-centric. with ghost, there are options for the code-savvy to customize themes, but if you don’t understand code at all, then your options are limited. winner: wordpress flexibility one of the main selling point of wordpress is it’s flexibility. it’s an open-source piece of software you can use to easily create almost any website. you have literally thousands of themes and plugins to choose from. if you need some functionality that default wordpress doesn’t offer, there’s almost certainly a plugin for that. maintenance mode, animated galleries, even completely functional online stores. you name it, wordpress can do it. but with ghost, things are a little different. the team behind it designed it specifically for blogging, and only blogging. while there are ghost themes, and some apps/apis, they don’t really stray too far from what you might expect a stereotypical blog or blogger needs. winner: wordpress conclusion ghost is a beautiful solution that is great for people who want to create just a blog. wordpress is the whole package. it has great themes, plugins, and it gives you more flexibility. when all is said and done, this comparison boils down to simplicity versus flexibility. if you want to start something bigger than a blog, or at least have the option to continue building on the blog after you’ve launched, then go with wordpress. we hope this article helped you compare wordpress and ghost, and reach a decision about which to choose for your new website. if you’ve been convinced to give wordpress a try, you can use our step-by-step tutorial on how to install wordpress. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 137 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to start your own podcast (step by step) revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 3 commentsleave a reply victor says: sep 11, 2018 at 6:05 am wordpress has free and basic levels while for ghost has a high minimum price of 10x the basic wordpress. kinda like the cool but highly priced iphone vs a range of variously priced androids. reply hkalant says: dec 4, 2015 at 9:21 am ghost admin panel doesn’t look anything like this in the latest version (0.7.2). the design is vertical, more intuitive and you see more than 3 option when you log in. you need to update your screenshot. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 9, 2015 at 4:42 pm thanks, we updated the article. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.