 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog easy to follow video tutorials welcome to the first site guide video library! here, you will find the video tutorials you need to set up and maintain a successful blog. topics covered include wordpress, blogging basics, and niche blogging. wordpress comparisons wordpress vs wix software / tools comparison wordpress vs squarespace software / tools comparison wordpress vs drupal / cms comparison wordpress vs joomla / cms comparison wordpress vs tumblr / blogging platforms comparison wordpress vs blogger / blogging platforms comparison blogging basics what is a blog? how to start a blog – the beginner’s guide (in 15 minutes or less) free blogging platforms vs. self-hosted blogs how to setup / install a wordpress blog with bluehost wordpress basics what is wordpress? wordpress.com vs. wordpress.org – what is the best choice? how to setup a self-hosted wordpress blog how to manually install wordpress software on your server the wordpress dashboard overview posts vs. pages creating a new post creating an about page creating a contact page using the media manager updating wordpress platform managing comments appearance settings themes section overview customize section managing and adding widgets creating and editing menus customizing the header custom background options advanced code editor installing plugins installing google analytics installing disqus comment plugin installing yoast seo plugin installing seo meta tags plugin managing users tools section settings section how to setup / install a premium wordpress theme niche blogging how to start a general blog – step by step guide how to start a food blog – step by step guide how to start a fashion blog – step by step guide how to make a music teacher website – step by step guide blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.