menu ithemes wordpress backup, security & maintenance wordpress hosting backupbuddy security sync plugin suite toolkit training web speed & optimization course digital marketing summit, feb. 28 wordpress gutenberg help wordpress tutorials free upcoming webinars blog contact log in learn & grow with the wordpress experts! master leading-edge wordpress skills to grow your business and make more money. buy now as an ithemes training member you get: all new premium courses developed and offered during your membership year course replays and downloads to watch and learn at your convenience exclusive members-only slack channel with advice, tips & feedback an extensive library of professional wordpress training wordpress basics training to help you learn wordpress access to the annual wordpress developer course 2020 premium training courses freelance leap year with nathan ingram monthly live training sessions (reg. $289) do you want your freelance business to take off this year ... but don’t know where to start? we’ve built freelance leap year to help you make 2020 the year you get focused and see success and growth in your business, no matter how busy your schedule is. designed especially for freelance wordpress web developers & designers, make 2020 the year you make leaps in your freelance business. learn more about freelance leap year → digital marketing summit with aj morris replays available for $199 the digital marketing summit will give you a ton of information if you are looking to start or grow your business. likely you haven’t taken enough time to work on building up all the marketing aspects of your business. you may have a couple of ways that you reach potential clients or customers, but those are far and few between. learn more about the digital marketing summit → speeding up wordpress with nathan ingram & aj morris register now for $99 $79 would you be interested in seeing how you can optimize a site for speed without just installing a plugin? you could easily turn this into a service you could offer your clients. learn more about speeding up wordpress → 2019 premium training courses seo bootcamp with lindsay halsey replays + downloads now available (reg. $299) seo bootcamp is for marketers, business owners, website developers and bloggers. we break seo down into its component parts and teach you a holistic strategy that can be applied to businesses small and large. learn actionable tactics and focus your efforts on those which are the most impactful. no longer overwhelmed by seo, you’ll walk away with an seo process and toolkit. you’ll be ready to take action and see real results! learn more about seo bootcamp → seo as business with lindsay halsey replays + downloads now available (reg. $299) the seo as business training course will teach how to grow your seo business. get example seo proposals and pricing guides to jump start your seo services. learn more about seo as business → web design bootcamp with michelle schulp replays + downloads now available (reg. $199) learn design terminology and how to think like a designer about your site, including typography, contrast, layout, color, etc. you'll also learn how to implement good design practices into existing websites using concrete tips and existing (core) tools like gutenberg. learn more about web design bootcamp → copywriting workshop with joel klettke replays + downloads now available (reg. $349) add copywriting to your skillset in 2019. learn how to write convincing copy with during the copywriting workshop. get the basics, key principles, tips and actionable steps to writing better copy for sales and marketing. learn more about copywriting → woocommerce bootcamp with patrick rauland replays + downloads now available (reg. $249) woocommerce can be confusing and overwhelming. demystify woocommerce setup and settings with clear explanations and guidance. by the end of the training, you'll have a complete understanding of how to set up and run a woocommerce shop. learn more about woocommerce bootcamp → modern wordpress developer course with aj morris replays + downloads now available (reg. $399) wordpress development has changed a lot over the past 3 years since the last time we offered a wordpress developer course. with the addition of page builders, gutenberg and updated development best practices, there is a lot to learn and understand when it comes to wordpress development. you won't want to miss this course! learn to be a modern wordpress developer → google analytics bootcamp with chris edwards replays + downloads now available (reg. $199) everybody knows google analytics is the best way to track traffic to your wordpress website. but setting up reports correctly and understanding all the information they provide can be a challenge. during this 3-day google analytics training event, analytics expert chris edwards will do a deep dive into google analytics. learn more about google analytics → learn how to build a woocommerce store with chris lema replays + downloads now available (reg. $99) woocommerce is growing at a faster pace than wordpress these days. with ecommerce growing as rapidly as it is, it is important to learn how to build woocommerce stores. during this 1-day online woocommerce training event, woocommerce expert chris lema will host a workshop-style format to show you how to build a woocommerce store. learn how to build a woocommerce store → social media marketing workshop with bridget willard replays + downloads now available (reg. $129) starting out with social media marketing from scratch can be overwhelming. without the context of relationship marketing, it’s easy to become frustrated. instead, let’s get an overview of how social media can truly be effective. in this new online training workshop, you'll finally recognize the role of social media in your business. learn more about social media marketing → beaver builder developer course with nathan ingram register now for $149 (reg. $199) beaver builder is the powerhouse drag & drop wordpress page builder that allows you to build beautiful wordpress websites in minutes, not months. during this online beaver builder training course, nathan ingram will teach some of the critical skills you need to become a beaver builder expert. go deeper in your understanding of wordpress & leverage the power of beaver builder to supercharge your ability to customize wordpress websites for your clients. this course will focus on creating a base website theme and plugin stack that you can replicate and customize for future jobs so you can be more efficient and productive! save $50 off now → premium wordpress courses coming in 2020... january: freelance leap year 2020 begins february: digital marketing summit march: speeding up wordpress april:seo bootcamp 2020 may: ecommerce summit (memberships) june: performance/speed improvements become a member of ithemes training (you will be glad you did!) monthly included all new premium courses developed and offered during your membership year course replays and downloads to watch and learn at your convenience exclusive members-only slack channel with advice, tips & feedback an extensive library of professional wordpress training wordpress basics training to help you learn wordpress access to the annual wordpress developer course save $52 with the annual plan! $39 / month buy now buy now buy now annual included all new premium courses developed and offered during your membership year course replays and downloads to watch and learn at your convenience exclusive members-only slack channel with advice, tips & feedback an extensive library of professional wordpress training wordpress basics training to help you learn wordpress access to the annual wordpress developer course save $52 with the annual plan! $399 / year buy now buy now buy now questions? contact our account services team now. course faqs i'm a toolkit member. do i get access to these courses? yes! if you're a current ithemes toolkit member, you get free access to all premium courses. what is the format of training courses? we use the online webinar format to host our online training events. all instruction is given live and in real-time, along with an interactive webinar chat for attendees to ask questions and interact with other attendees. how do the live webinars work? before the first webinar, you'll need to download the gotowebinar launcher software for your computer. you'll receive several email reminders before each session begins with a link to join the live webinar. we'll let you know about the live webinar chat url before the webinars begin so you can join the live discussion with other attendees. what if i can't make the live webinars? to really get the most out of trainings, we recommend blocking off time in your schedule to attend the live training sessions. but if you can't make to any or all of the live webinars, you can watch the webinar replay videos and review the course downloads at your convenience. what happens after i make my purchase? after your purchase, you'll get an email confirmation with your course registration links. if you don't receive this email, please contact us by sending an email to sales@ithemes.com and we'll make sure you have your registration links. do you offer refunds on training courses? due to the way the course material and presentation is delivered, we can't offer refunds or issue account credits for training courses. if you have questions prior to making your purchase, our sales team is ready to help so please contact us. have more questions about this training? contact our sales team now. get updates on new themes & plugins plus special discounts email address about ithemes #wprosper testimonials friends of ithemes contact us privacy policy sitemap resources blog documentation wordpress tutorials free wordpress ebooks free webinar library free upcoming webinars ithemes training affiliates customers member panel login support faqs getting started upgrade policy licensing terms and conditions refund policy top products wordpress backup plugin wordpress security plugin manage multiple wordpress sites wordpress hosting wordpress plugins toolkit wordpress content upgrade plugin wordpress landing page plugin backupbuddy stash liquid web family of brands ithemes media llc copyright © 2020 all rights reserved × save 40% off backupbuddy till march 31st! save 40% off now