main navigation wordpress.com products features resources plans & pricing log in get started menu blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise overview themes plugins google apps support news expert tips navigation menu close menu get started add a new site › sign up › log in › about plans & pricing products blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise features overview themes plugins google apps resources news support expert tips create a site with wordpress. build your site with the software trusted by 36% of the internet. get started choose wordpress.com for the fastest, easiest way to start your website. the easiest place to get started hosting, security, backups, and spam protection are all included. pick from more than 300 themes, activate our powerful features inspired by the best plugins, and get a custom domain with a plan. start with wordpress.com choose a custom wordpress installation for the ultimate control over your website. pick from thousands of community themes and plugins and manage your own security and software updates on your preferred hosting provider. choose optional dedicated wordpress hosting for increased performance. designed and built to run wordpress like a dream. exclusive technology gives you the proven performance, reliability, and functionality you need. start with bluehost award-winning wordpress hosting sites optimized for peak performance, automatic security and backups, up to 20x daily traffic scaling, experts on call to help round the clock. start with dreamhost out of all of the hosts in the world we've chosen to recommend bluehost and dreamhost as the two we think are best. if you sign up with one of our recommended partners we have a commercial affiliate relationship with them. people love wordpress.com logo. it’s been a great privilege and a life-changing experience. i’m grateful to wordpress.com for providing an affordable and user-friendly platform for individuals to launch projects and be heard in this way. ann morgan ayearofreadingtheworld.com wordpress.com works really well with google for a great seo ranking. i can also embed youtube videos, google maps, and other content easily and without any coding ability. quintin lake theperimeter.uk need help deciding? learn more about each option to choose the one that’s best for you. wordpress.com total simplicity — we take care of everything. build a site in minutes. we host your site, register your domain, and offer built-in plugins including automated software updates and security. choose from hundreds of beautiful designs and customize them for your business site, blog, or portfolio. if you purchased a wordpress theme elsewhere? no problem: the wordpress.com business plan lets you install any theme you’d like. reach a wider audience and find new readers. sync your content to facebook and twitter and connecting with millions of people using wordpress.com. get support right from the experts. access documents, forums, videos, or get 1-on-1 help by e-mail or live chat. start with wordpress.com wordpress.org more control — you install and host your site. find a host, install plugins, and get your hands dirty. we can help with services like jetpack for security and backups. have complete control over your design and code. install and customize any wordpress theme you want or build your own with php and css. extend your site with plugins. choose from thousands of community plugins to add features like spam protection, custom galleries, in-depth analytics, and more. find help from the wider wordpress community through support forums. start with bluehost themes features blog stats vip terms of service privacy policy language: en an automattic mambo