skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events wpweekly episode 9 – automattic acquires buddypress jeff chandler · march 7, 2008 join us for episode 9 where we’ll discuss the buddy press acquisition, gravatars with and without a plugin, ebay decided … continue reading wpweekly episode 9 – automattic acquires buddypress → wpweekly episode 8 – interview with brandon rosage of mvn.com jeff chandler · february 29, 2008 in episode 8, i interview brandon rosage. brandon is the webmaster of mvn.com, a wordpress powered site that covers sporting … continue reading wpweekly episode 8 – interview with brandon rosage of mvn.com → wpweekly episode 7 – interview with tommy of buzzdroid jeff chandler · february 21, 2008 in episode 7, i interview tommy from buzzdroid as i try to figure out the inspiration behind the shifter wordpress … continue reading wpweekly episode 7 – interview with tommy of buzzdroid → wpweekly episode 6 – wordpress 2.5 frozen solid jeff chandler · february 14, 2008 this week on episode 6, we finally see wordpress 2.5 feature froze which is a standard practice for all versions … continue reading wpweekly episode 6 – wordpress 2.5 frozen solid → wpweekly episode 5 – wordpress 2.3.3 / is wp a cms? jeff chandler · february 7, 2008 i haven’t been inside the feed reader too much this week because of the redesign of this blog. but this … continue reading wpweekly episode 5 – wordpress 2.3.3 / is wp a cms? → wpweekly episode 4 – automattic secures 29.5 million bucks jeff chandler · january 31, 2008 in this episode of wordpress weekly, we cover the story of how matt and toni of automattic secured a series … continue reading wpweekly episode 4 – automattic secures 29.5 million bucks → wpweekly episode 3 – what makes a theme premium jeff chandler · january 24, 2008 this week there is a ton of stuff to talk about. we have the bombshell that was dropped the other … continue reading wpweekly episode 3 – what makes a theme premium → wpweekly episode 2 – call disaster control jeff chandler · january 10, 2008 i really apologize for this weeks show. i wasn’t as prepared as i should of been and overall, it’s just … continue reading wpweekly episode 2 – call disaster control → wpweekly episode 1 – the beginning of something special jeff chandler · january 5, 2008 the first ever episode of wordpress weekly is now complete and it went off without a hitch. i want to … continue reading wpweekly episode 1 – the beginning of something special → posts navigation ← previous 1 … 456 457 recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram