 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog wordpress basics wordpress is the most popular content management system that used by bloggers all around the world. if you are new to wordpress, you are in the right place. learn all the basic terminology and how to use it. how to move your blog from movable type and typepad to wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: february 24th, 2020 last updated: february 26th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 0 comment before there was wordpress, other content management systems had a chance to present their blogging options to the world. movable type and typepad were one of the first to try to capture the attention of aspiring bloggers. and even when wordpress came into the game, these two (technically three, but understand that movable type and […] how to move your blog from squarespace to wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: february 13th, 2020 last updated: february 13th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 0 comment we are all getting knee-deep into the 21st century. that means that the internet itself, as well as building web, is getting more complex. yet, the complexity allows creating tools that are tailored to beginners and people who know nothing about the technology behind it. because of all that, bloggers who decide to start their […] how to move your blog from weebly to wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: january 10th, 2020 last updated: february 19th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 0 comment new technology has allowed an average joe to get his five minutes of glory or to start his or her own business from any corner of the world. so, even if you have no idea how the internet works, you can still start your blog in the following few hours. while someone who wanted to […] how to move your blog from wix to wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: october 30th, 2019 last updated: february 19th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 2 comments truth to be told, wix is a stunning website builder that seems perfectly tailored to beginners’ needs. it looks beautiful, comes with some great premade designs that will help you jump start your first site, and it is actually relatively easy to handle & manage. we are sure that you have already stumbled upon some wix commercials […] how to move your blog from tumblr to wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: august 8th, 2019 last updated: february 10th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 6 comments in the modern world, starting a personal blog or a simple website is quite easy. there’s no need for coding, and you actually don’t have to have any experience with web development. you just need the will to start a blog and a bit of browsing in order to find the platform you will like […] how to reset a wordpress site – beginners guide by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: april 18th, 2019 last updated: august 8th, 2019) posted in: wordpress 2 comments have you ever been in a situation where you needed to start over your wordpress site? although wordpress allows everyone to easily start a blog, creating that perfect site you have been dreaming of isn’t so straightforward as you may have imagined. you will have to spend some time messing around with wordpress until you […] how to redirect users in wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: august 8th, 2018 last updated: december 12th, 2019) posted in: wordpress 2 comments redirections are a standard part of websites, plugins, and themes. some are happening right in front of eyes, and you might not be even aware what’s going on in the back. although redirections are usually left for developers, we are going to show you several tips that will let you: redirect users after successful login […] 8 unknown facts wordpress.com sucks for serious bloggers by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: july 18th, 2018 last updated: december 12th, 2019) posted in: wordpress 2 comments congratulations! you have decided to start a blog, and we are happy to welcome you to the broad family of millions of bloggers spread literally all around the world. making a decision to start a blog might have been easy, but this is the point where the real decision-making process will start to unfold. since […] make the best out of wordpress tags by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: july 11th, 2018 last updated: december 17th, 2018) posted in: wordpress 1 comment similar to categories, tags are a way of grouping wordpress posts and pages. they are usually more specific than categories but are entirely optional. although you can easily decide not to use tags in your posts, most people in wordpress do tag their posts with at least one word which is the most relevant to the article […] 21 tips on how to speed up a wordpress blog by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: july 4th, 2018 last updated: february 10th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 3 comments when browsing the internet, you probably don’t overthink website speed. if your internet connection is good enough, you probably have only two conclusions about each and every site regarding the speed – the site is or isn’t fast enough. and that’s how most of the internet users will see your wordpress website. even if it’s attractive […] how to work with youtube videos in wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 28th, 2018 last updated: december 17th, 2018) posted in: wordpress 0 comment youtube is 13 years old and it has definitely changed the way people think about video on the internet. although there are few other services which are quite popular among users all over the world, google’s video service is still number one for many of us. because of that, wordpress developers made sure that embedding […] control the rss feed on your wordpress site like a pro by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 13th, 2018 last updated: november 21st, 2018) posted in: wordpress 0 comment if you have created a website powered by wordpress, the chances are that you’re are going to publish new content on a daily basis or at least weekly. if so, you will want to hand out your content to users. while many of them will get updates from your site through the site itself and the social media pages you create, you […] how to search and replace text in wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: april 19th, 2018 last updated: december 12th, 2019) posted in: wordpress 2 comments have you ever realized that you had made a mistake while writing a wordpress post just to find out that there’s no easy way to search and replace that typo throughout the entire post? what if you’ve been writing a wrong word, phrase or link for the last few months? unfortunately, wordpress doesn’t allow you […] modify search features of your wordpress website by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: april 12th, 2018 last updated: december 20th, 2018) posted in: wordpress 1 comment once you start writing and accumulate more than just a few articles, you will hopefully get more visitors to visit your site. and when they get there, your visitors will want only the best content and that’s only true if they are interested in the topic. so, even if you narrow the field and write […] tips, tricks and best plugins for customizing wordpress menus by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: april 4th, 2018 last updated: december 12th, 2019) posted in: wordpress 3 comments menus are one of the most vital parts of every website. they are omnipresent and they guide users through your blog. and while it’s relatively easy to add a navigation menu in wordpress, there’s so much more you can do in order to customize it for your website. whether it’s a small icon you want […] how to create wordpress shortcodes and work with them more easily by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: march 28th, 2018 last updated: january 31st, 2020) posted in: wordpress 0 comment wordpress shortcodes are small tags that are used as shortcuts for executing specific features in posts and pages. you can recognize shortcodes by square brackets that surround a simple word or a phrase. they were introduced in version 2.5 with a mission to help people to execute functions the easy way. as you might already […] modify wordpress admin menus to your needs by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: march 7th, 2018 last updated: december 24th, 2018) posted in: wordpress 0 comment every wordpress admin menu is looking the same after the installation. that might be a good thing if you work on different sites powered by our beloved wordpress, but if you’re creating a blog for a client, you might want to modify admin menu to achieve a unique look. although there aren’t that many options on the […] how to improve images in wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: february 28th, 2018 last updated: january 17th, 2019) posted in: wordpress 0 comment it’s been a long time since images were something too big to load over the internet. today, websites can’t exist without them. even though internet speeds have dramatically increased over the years, it’s vital that you take care of pictures on your blog. just because it’s easy to upload images to your site, that doesn’t […] how to translate wordpress into any language by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: february 21st, 2018 last updated: february 5th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 0 comment by default, wordpress speaks english and that’s the language you can expect on every backend page of your system. since wordpress has become one of the most popular cms in the world, it is normal to expect the platform to be translated into additional languages. and it is. if you want to install wordpress and […] how to change title attributes in wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: february 7th, 2018 last updated: december 12th, 2019) posted in: wordpress 0 comment having a website or a wordpress blog without managing titles is quite impossible. if you have ever forgotten to write a title, you quickly realized that wordpress added one on its own. since they’re important to admins, other users, visitors, and even search engines, you should take extra caution when writing titles. while you should […] page 1 of 4 1 2 3 4 next » ← older wordpresss blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.