wordpress resources about contact us wp apprentice a better way to learn wordpress courses compare questions testimonials case studies blog member login struggling with wordpress? become more comfortable and confident managing your wordpress website stop wasting time searching google for answers. dump those confusing and outdated tech books. learn wordpress from easy step-by-step video tutorials. lessons are always current. updated for wordpress 5.3 (including gutenberg). start today for free choose your starting point free quick start learn the basics in an hour with ten of our most popular lessons learn more wordpress essentials this comprehensive video training course helps you master wordpress quickly learn more website blueprint build a feature-rich business website with this step-by-step site building course learn more try our free wordpress quick start course learn the basics in an hour with ten of our most popular wordpress tutorials. start today for free over 38,000 people have learned wordpress from our videos the depth of the videos in the training library is amazing!! laura riera this course really opened up a whole new wordpress world of knowledge. you have taken something that sometimes overwhelms and simplified it into understandable and workable modules. nancy breeding i was going quietly crazy trying to work out how to get a theme to look the way i wanted. after going through these videos it has de-mystified the whole process. david jarrold the chunking and sequencing of the content is superb and the supporting documentation and resources with each video is world-class. r. edward turner, ph.d. i’m amazed by how many nagging issues discovered over the past year of trying to work in our wordpress site are explained with each new session of this course. linda willis the wp essentials is just that – the absolute essentials for learning wordpress. it has been a huge help for me, especially in that i can revisit the various modules over and over, whenever it suits me. steve stapelberg learn wordpress terms of service privacy policy disclosures © 2020 wp apprentice our 10 most popular video lessons wordpress quick start course get started with wordpress today! learn the basics in under one hour. get instant access! x