wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide events news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpess plugins deals glossary videos contact login do you want to learn wordpress? don't waste your time on boring tech books or searching youtube. wpbeginner's wordpress 101 video tutorials will teach you how to create and manage your own site(s) for free. what folks are saying about us … chris brogan president, hb works neil patel founder, crazyegg matt mickiewicz founder, 99designs lewis howes best selling author chris garrett authority blogger todd garland founder, buysellads zac johnson super affiliate chuck l. founder, slidedeck john chow blogger and speaker register a free account for wpbeginner wordpress videos hello my name is: * first last i want free access to wpbeginner videos, so i can take my wordpress skills to the next level. my email is (used as username): enter your primary email* i want my password to be: * enter password confirm password because wpbeginner is the most popular wordpress resource site, i know that my personal information will never be abused in any form. are you wondering why these videos are free? what is the catch…? syed balkhi founder of wpbeginner here is why: i am tired of self-proclaimed "blogging experts" charging hundreds of dollars to teach how to use wordpress. i believe basic education like this should be free. i created wpbeginner to offer users what i wish i had when starting out. you are probably wondering how do we make money? well, a lot of these videos were created for our enterprise clients (to lower support requests), so we make our money that way. wordpress is my passion, and it has changed the way of my life. i am able to live a great life with my wife and dogs. i employ 5 amazing people who help me with my business. i've found great success because of wordpress. i hate it when i see people trying to make quick $$$ by scamming new users. this resource is our way of giving back to the wordpress community. hate to disappoint the critics of the "free model", but there is no catch, and yes these are pretty decent quality videos. if i have to rate it myself, i would give it a perfect 5 out of 5 star rating. about wpbeginner wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). © copyright 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. {usage policy} site links privacy policy ftc disclosure about us contact us sites we like monsterinsights optinmonster wpforms seedprod nameboy wpbeginner is built on wordpress and maintained by syed balkhi. wordpress hosting by hostgator. wordpress cdn by maxcdn. wordpress security by sucuri.