skip to content premium wordpress themes gutenberg ready create a site features framework performance security seo plugins updates support quick-start guide included themes plans and pricing shop for themes get started pro plus faq genesis framework my studiopress studiopress helps you build amazing wordpress sites get the genesis framework & studiopress themes free when you sign up for a wp engine plan all-in-one package create a site with wp engine premium themes shop for themes genesis framework get genesis which is right for me? which studiopress product is right for me? create your site with wp engine. wp engine provides worry-free managed wordpress hosting, built for people who want their hosting “just handled." it’s lightning-fast and easy to set up, so you can focus on what’s important to your business. if you only need a design for your wordpress site, browse our selection of premium wordpress themes. these can be edited and installed on any wordpress site, no matter which hosting provider you use. the genesis framework is for those who want to develop their own theme using genesis as the foundation. all our premium themes run on genesis, and if you buy a premium theme package, genesis is included in your purchase. want all studiopress themes & genesis for free? sign up for a wp engine plan and receive the genesis framework and 35+ studiopress themes free. that’s over $2,000 in value. create a site with wp engine agency or freelancer building wordpress sites? verified freelancers and agencies receive a free wp engine agency account as well as genesis and 35+ studiopress themes free! learn about partnerships why studiopress? we combine expert knowledge in seo, design, performance, security, support, and (of course) wordpress to help you build reliable, beautiful wordpress sites. find out why 200,000+ customers trust studiopress → 213,675+ happy customers 500,000+ wordpress sites powered by the genesis framework 10k+ active community members and genesis developers genesis is gutenberg ready the genesis framework and studiopress themes work seamlessly with the new wordpress editor. learn more create your site with wp engine wp engine provides worry-free managed wordpress hosting, built for people who want their hosting “just handled." it’s lightning-fast and easy to set up, so you can focus on what’s important to your business. plus, when you sign up for a wp engine plan, you get the genesis framework and 35+ studiopress themes free. that’s over $2,000 in value. learn more premium wordpress themes since 2010, studiopress has offered world-class themes that excel in both design and infrastructure: all of our themes are built on the genesis framework, which makes your site faster, more secure, and more seo-friendly. shop our themes genesis framework genesis framework thousands of developers choose the genesis framework because it provides exactly what they need to build a secure, seo-friendly, powerful wordpress site without the bloat. all our products are built on genesis — and yours could be, too. get genesis what people are saying genesis lets me sleep easy. knowing my blog is well optimized, secure and easy to update lets me get on with developing content, community and building a business from my blogging. darren rowse problogger we are huge advocates of studiopress. their genesis framework is a powerful platform, and includes the most critical seo features—which makes consultants like me incredibly happy. rebecca gill web savvy marketing studiopress helped me transform my hobby into a successful online business. their products enable me to focus on creating top-notch solutions for my clients. shay bocks feast design company themes & tools that make wordpress easier get all-in-one shop for themes get genesis footer © 2020 wpengine, inc. products all-in-one with wp engine shop for themes theme features getting started showcase company brand assets terms of service acceptable use policy privacy policy refund policy contact us community find developers forums facebook group #genesiswp showcase resources studiopress blog help & documentation faqs code snippets affiliates connect studiopress live facebook twitter dribbble