wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » opinion » the ultimate wordpress review – is it the best choice for your website? the ultimate wordpress review – is it the best choice for your website? last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 276 shares share tweet share pin you may have heard that wordpress is the most popular website builder platform, but maybe you aren’t sure if wordpress is the right choice for you. unlike wix, weebly, or squarespace, wordpress is actually 100% free. this is why if you searched for “wordpress review”, you would hardly find anything useful because bloggers often tend to write reviews for products that they earn a referral commission from. to help you make the right business decision, we have created the ultimate wordpress software review with pros and cons of using wordpress, so you can decide if wordpress is the right choice for your website. because our wordpress review is extremely detailed, we have added a table of contents, so you can jump between different sections. what is wordpress? what kind of websites you can make with wordpress? how does wordpress really work? what are the pros and cons of wordpress? who should use wordpress? is wordpress right for you? how to get started with wordpress – the right way mastering wordpress skills 1. what is wordpress? wordpress is the world’s most popular site builder. it powers more than 33% of all websites on the internet, that’s millions of websites all over the world. it’s important that you don’t confuse the wordpress.org content management system (cms) with the wordpress.com blog hosting service. our wordpress review is for the popular self-hosted wordpress software that everyone loves and use (not the wordpress.com hosting service). we recommend wordpress.org because it gives you full access to all wordpress features out of the box. for more details, see our side by side comparison of wordpress.com vs wordpress.org. from now onwards, when we say wordpress, we are talking about the free wordpress.org software. wordpress started as a simple blogging platform back in 2003. since then it has evolved to become a content management system and an application development framework. in simple words, you can easily build any type of website using wordpress. to see how wordpress changed over the years, please see our article on the evolution of wordpress user interface. wordpress is an open source software which means it is free for everyone and anyone can download and install it. now you may be thinking, why is wordpress free? what’s the catch? it is free as an in freedom. you can use it for any purpose, and no one can suspend your website due to censorship or a terms of service violation. you also have the freedom to customize wordpress to your needs without any restriction. but like all websites, you will need to register a domain name and web hosting. based on your needs, you may have to purchase premium wordpress themes or extensions that will have additional costs. for a complete cost breakdown, see our article on the real cost of making a wordpress site. that being said, now let’s take a look at what you can do with wordpress and how does it actually work. 2. what kind of websites you can make with wordpress? wordpress is extremely flexible which is the main reason why it is a popular choice to build a website. you can use wordpress to build almost any kind of website imaginable! you can use it to start a blog, make a small business website, create an online store, build a membership site, sell online courses, run a marketplace, and more. no matter what kind of website you want to build, chances are that there is probably an existing wordpress plugin (extension) for that. in case, you don’t find a plugin, you can easily hire from thousands of developer to make it for you. here’s a list of the most popular types of websites people are making with wordpress. 3. how does wordpress really work? unlike other website builders, wordpress keeps design, content, and functionality separated from each other. this allows for data portability. in other words, you can add content regardless of the design you are using, modify the design without changing your content, and add new features without affecting the other areas. let’s dig deeper into that. 1. adding content in wordpress wordpress stores content in a database and media files like images in a separate folder. mainly you will be adding content to your website using the post editor. post editor is a simple wysiwyg editor with some basic formatting features. it comes in two forms. first, you have the visual editor, which is a wysiwyg style editor, and then you have the text editor which is a plain text editor where you can add formatting by writing html in your content. by default, wordpress content editor does not have any fancy drag and drop features to customize your content design as you write it. however you can use one of the popular wordpress drag and drop page builders should you need it. 2. managing design and appearance in wordpress wordpress uses a powerful templating engine to manage the appearance of a website. this templating engine allows developers to create a set of templates called ‘themes‘. there are thousands of pre-made wordpress themes available in the market. each wordpress theme comes with a stylesheet and basic template files to display different sections of a typical wordpress website. depending on which theme you are using, it will come with its own settings which you can use to customize the appearance of your website. some themes may have a lot more theme customization options than others. there are thousands of free and paid wordpress themes available that you can use to build a website. these themes allow you to use your own colors, layout combinations, and logos. you can also hire someone to create a custom wordpress theme from scratch, but it would cost significantly higher than using a free or premium wordpress theme. alternatively, you can use a drag and drop page builder like beaverbuilder or divi to create a custom theme without hiring a developer. 3. extending wordpress with add-ons due to it’s popularity, wordpress has become the go-to platform developers to write their own add-ons. these add-ons are called plugins. plugins are like apps for your wordpress site. just like apps on your mobile phone, you can install wordpress plugins to add new features to your website. at the time of writing this article, there are more than 55,000 plugins available in wordpress.org plugins directory alone. this means if you can think of a feature for your website, then there is a very good chance that there is already a plugin for that. some wordpress plugins are simple and only add a specific feature. other plugins add a large set of features and functionalities. there are even wordpress plugins like woocommerce, the most popular ecommerce solution, which have their own ecosystem of woocommerce plugins and themes. such plugins are like a platform built on top of the wordpress platform itself. to learn more see our article on wordpress plugins and how do they work. some of the best wordpress plugins that we recommend for every website are: wpforms lite – add contact forms to your wordpress site optinmonster – the best way to get more email subscribers and sales from your website. monsterinsights (free) – helps you track visitor stats using google analytics wp super cache – improves your website’s speed by adding cache yoast seo – improve your wordpress seo and get more traffic from google updraftplus – free wordpress backup plugin plugins are often cited as the top reason why smart business owners choose wordpress over site builders like wix and weebly. 4. what are the pros and cons of wordpress? just like everything else in the world, wordpress has its own advantages and disadvantages which you may want to consider before making your website. pros of using wordpress the advantages of using wordpress to build your website deserve an entirely new article (see why you should use wordpress). here is a summary of pros of using wordpress for your website. wordpress is free and gives you complete control of your website. you own and control all your website files and data. you are not tied to a web hosting company and can move your website anywhere you want. it gives you access to a huge collection of extensions, add-ons, and plugins to extend your website. this enormous access to professional applications allow you to make anything you want. you are in charge of your website, so you can keep it simple and only add new features as your website grows. you can make your website super fast and use all the neat seo best practices to bring new users. super easy to customize with thousands of website designs and templates to choose from. each of them comes with different customization options, allowing you to create truly unique websites. simply put, it makes website building easy. due to its popularity, almost all popular third-party tools already have integrations available for wordpress. so your email marketing software, lead generation tool, seo tools, crm software, and payment gateways will all work with wordpress. cons of using wordpress wordpress is not perfect. it has some disadvantages that you may want to keep in mind when choosing your platform. you are in charge of your website. this means you are also responsible for security, making backups, and installing updates. you can automate all these tasks, but they would still require your attention unless you’re using one of these managed wordpress hosting companies. wordpress does not come with a built-in drag and drop website builder. it takes some time for most beginners to get familiar with it and learn the basics. however you can use one of the popular drag and drop page builder plugins for wordpress. you do not need to learn coding to use wordpress. however, some basic knowledge of html and css will make things a lot easier. most beginners acquire these basic skills as they use wordpress. 5. who should use wordpress? is wordpress right for you? the beautiful part about wordpress is that it adapts to your needs. it can be as easy and simple as you want, or as complex and sophisticated as you need it to be. since you are completely in charge and in full ownership, you can make things simple, control the cost, and efficiently run your website. over the years, we have helped thousands of beginners learn wordpress, and we have seen them quickly graduate to the intermediate or even advanced level. here is a simple checklist to see if wordpress is right for you: you want to make a professional business website without spending a lot of money you can easily follow simple tutorials to learn the basics you want to grow your business online with complete freedom you want to make a blog, portfolio, or a personal website and use it to make money online if you agree with any of the above statements, then wordpress is the perfect platform for you to build a website. who should not use wordpress? while we sincerely believe that wordpress is the best platform for anyone who wants to make a website, we understand that some users may not actually need wordpress, and would be fine with another solution. here is a simple checklist to see if you don’t need wordpress: you just want to run a blog and have no plans to make money or use any third-party services. you are fine with limited features as far as you never have to write code, make backups, or worry about updates. you just want a small website, and you are not worried about growing your business online or using the website to make more sells. if you agree with any of these statements, then you can use another platform. see our list of best blogging platforms and website builders to find a platform that may suit your needs. we also have a quick comparison guide of wordpress vs other popular platforms: wordpress vs wix wordpress vs squarespace wordpress vs weebly wordpress vs blogger wordpress.org vs wordpress.com woocommerce (wordpress) vs shopify 6. how to get started with wordpress – the right way to start a self-hosted wordpress.org website, you will need to register a domain name and purchase website hosting. we recommend using bluehost. they are offering our readers a free domain name + free ssl + 60% discount on wordpress hosting. which means you can start your website for as low as $2.75 per month. ← click here to claim this exclusive bluehost offer → bluehost is one of the largest hosting companies in the world, and they are an officially recommended wordpress hosting provider. once you have purchased hosting, head over to our guide on how to make a website for step by step instructions. 7. mastering wordpress skills while wordpress is easy to use, you may want to ask a question or need some help every now and again. the good news is that there are plenty of free resources to help you with that. wpbeginner itself is the largest free wordpress resource site for beginners. here are our resources that you can use to learn wordpress (all of them are completely free). wpbeginner blog – this is where we regularly publish new wordpress tutorials and how-to guides. wpbeginner videos – these step by step videos will help you learn wordpress fast. wpbeginner on youtube – need more video instructions? subscribe to our youtube channel with more than 100,000 subscribers and 10 million+ views. wpbeginner dictionary – familiarize your self with the wordpress lingo and improve your wordpress skills. wpbeginner blueprint – check out plugins, tools, and services we use on wpbeginner. wpbeginner deals – exclusive discounts on wordpress products and services for wpbeginner users. if you have a wordpress specific question, then you can also reach out to us using our contact form. we hope this wordpress review helped you understand the pros and cons of using wordpress. you may also want to see these actionable tips to bring more traffic to your new website. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 276 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 1 commentleave a reply okan katan says: dec 6, 2018 at 3:04 pm great! thanks. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) bluehost coupon get over 63% off on bluehost packages and a free domain of your choice. weglot coupon get 15% off on weglot multilingual plugin for wordpress. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.