skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » wordpress cache plugin benchmarks wordpress cache plugin benchmarks may 4, 2019 aigars silkalns plugins 10 comments a speedy website attracts more traffic, reduces bounce rates, and ranks better on search engines. maybe it’s time to re-evaluate your site’s caching needs and invest in an upmarket cache plugin to reap the rewards of your hard work. high page load times have an adverse effect on your wordpress website, and caching ensures that you never have to face them head on. this article aim for the lowest possible page load times with the right caching plugin by evaluating several different available options and ranking them based on page load times conducted in a real-world testing environment. let’s put this all into context before we move on to the tests. a note on caching in a nutshell, a cache is a component that stores data so future requests for that data can be served faster. generally, you do data caching to reduce site speed and improve data fetching times. this is immensely useful in cases where a user frequently returns to a particular website. after site caching, the browser doesn’t have to retrieve the entire site. it restores the cached version and receives the fresh information thus resulting in faster page load times. search engines take site speed seriously in their ranking algorithms. it’s quite simple: a faster site ranks better. when it comes to improving a wordpress site’s speed, most webmasters take to caching plugins. installing a reputable, upmarket caching plugin can dramatically improve your site’s page load time and save you a ton of effort (and money) figuring out how to do it otherwise. caching plugins save all of the dynamically generated html files onto the cache and serve them directly from there. basically, what’s happening is that your site is repurposing previously generated data. therefore, each time a new request is made to retrieve some data, the browser fetches the cached version instead of having to load all of the php scripts over and over again. doing this improves the page load time for your site’s viewership. our testing strategy the strategy we adopted for this experiment was to test a real wordpress site running wpexplorer’s total theme. the website tested, color awesome, is a full-fledged wordpress site which was purposefully kept that way to imitate a real-world website. color awesome website running the total theme. the website had all of the essential plugins installed that you’d find in a typical wordpress installation, including contact form 7, slider revolution, visual composer, formidable forms, woocommerce, and yoast seo. color awesome has demo data loaded onto it and an integrated e-store, as well. the page to be tested was nearly blah kb in size, which is much heavier than a stripped-down version, making it closer to a real site in size. let’s take a look at the hosting and benchmarking tools used for the experiment. hosting provider and hosting plan according to the bluehost website, bluehost and wordpress have worked closely since 2005 to create a hosting platform ideal for running wordpress websites. the color awesome website is hosted with bluehost‘s shared hosting plan. we specifically chose this particular hosting provider and hosting plan because bluehost is one of the best hosting services out there for wordpress sites being the most optimal and cost-efficient alternative. it’s recommended by wordpress! keep in mind that we might receive a commission if you decided to purchase through these links. benchmarking tools used during the experiment, the state of the website remained the same for all caching plugins. this means that we didn’t give extra advantage to any isolated plugin. moreover, to acquire accurate, real-world data on the performance of each, we sampled a wide range of benchmarking tools for the experiment. site-grading tools. site-grading tools test a given website on a criterion other than speed. they take factors like image optimization, browser caching, javascript minification, gzip compression, and the number of https requests into account. for the purpose of these tests, we used gtmetrix and google pagespeed insights as our go-to site-grading tools. gtmetrix is based on yahoo’s performance guidelines and provides more detailed results compared to google pagespeed insights. users get an entire waterfall that breaks down the entire page loading process for an in-depth analysis. google pagespeed insights tests a given site from both a desktop computer and a mobile device and scores it based on a scale of 1–100. although it may not provide much insight into google’s ranking algorithm or help us determine which factors are important to google, it’s still a widely used site-grading tool due to the advice it offers for every test. timing tools. timing tools are used to measure the page load times of a website from different server locations. in addition to computing the page load speed, these tools also benchmark how well a given server performs under load. for this purpose, we employed pingdom. pingdom is essentially a testing and server monitoring service. though it also has a site-grading module, we opted for its timing module instead and recorded the page load times for each caching plugin tested, with the server location kept constant. the candidate lineup now that we’ve described the testing strategy and elaborated on the tools we were going to use, let’s check out the caching plugin’s lineup. aside from wp rocket, we found all of the caching plugins in the wordpress plugin directory. wp rocket wp super cache w3 total cache wp fastest cache zen cache hyper cache cachify hyper cache extended lite cache gator cache we selected the top 10 wordpress caching plugins based on their popularity and number of active installs to provide you with the crème de la crème. page grade test results after testing out each caching plugin with both site-grading tools i.e. google pagespeed insight and gtmetrix, the final computed results were: page grade test results 2019 (cache plugins) infogram analysis of page grade test results as evident from the test result, caching plugins didn’t have a significant effect on the site-grading experiments. in fact, most of the values remained the same whether a caching plugin was installed or not! it’s quite surprising that where there is a difference, it is miniscule at best. for google pagespeed insights, we find that wp super cache and hyper extended cache have ranked highest for both desktop and mobile scores giving a score of 52 and 45, respectively. in the gtmetrix category, wp fastest cache comes in first place with the highest pagespeed score at a whopping 83 with wp rocket following closely behind boasting an 81 score. pretty impressive! that said, in the yslow category, wp rocket does considerable better than all the others bringing in a score of 86! our verdict as per the site-grading test results, we conclude that the best caching plugins are wp rocket, wp fastest cache, wp super cache, and hyper extended cache. timing test results once we completed the site-grading tests, we moved on to the timing tests in which we tested out each caching plugin and recorded its best page load time. here are the results: timing test results infogram analysis of timing test results prior to testing caching plugins, we checked the page load time for the test site on pingdom. without caching, the site loaded in 9.45 seconds (don’t judge!). after recording the page load times for each caching plugin, we computed its difference from the original value (without caching, 9.45 seconds), and how much faster each caching plugin was. once again, wp rocket came in first place being nearly 2.25 times faster than the site without a caching plugin installed. scoring a total page load time of 4.19 seconds (that’s 126% faster than the original test site!), wp rocket takes the first prize in the timing test. wp super cache follows with a total page load time zeroing in at an impressive 5.29 seconds and w3 total cache comes in third place with 6.02 seconds on the clock. our verdict as per the timing test results measuring the page load times of the test site with each caching plugin installed and activated, we conclude that the best caching plugins are wp rocket, wp super cache, and w3 total cache. the best wordpress caching plugins ranked based on both test results, wp rocket is, hands down, the winner. the premium caching plugin had the highest yslow score. it also loaded the testing website more than twice as fast as the reference site. wp rocket comes with a wide range of features, customization options, and a friendly support staff – all for a reasonable price. wp super cache takes the silver with an impressive page load time and scoring highest on google pagespeed insight’s desktop and mobile test. the plugin is insanely easy to set up and configure. those of you who’d prefer to hold on to their wallets should definitely give wp super cache a shot. coming in third place is w3 total cache. the caching plugin did fairly well on the page load tests. it didn’t perform as remarkably on the site-grading tests, though. that said, this unique caching solution is often the top choice for technically minded webmasters. they like to configure its 16 pages of settings to fit their sites’ needs down to every last detail. wrapping it up there you have it. we’ve completed the caching experiment, presented the data, and performed an analysis for each of the two testing scenarios. each plugin on our list has its own set of unique features and standout points. your caching plugin should depend entirely on your site’s needs. also consider your level of expertise, the features you’re looking for, and your budget. we strongly recommend wp rocket to those who have the budget for a premium plugin. it is also good for those who may require support from customer representatives from time to time. however, if you’re in search of a free plugin, then wp super cache is a great choice. it features an easy setup and blazing fast speeds. on the other hand, if you’re more tech-savvy, perhaps w3 total cache’s extensive settings pages will pique your interest. which caching plugins have you tried on your wordpress site? which criteria do you evaluate your caching solutions against? we’d love to hear what you have to say, so let us know in the comments section below! thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. benchmarkscachingcaching pluginscomparisonperformancewordpress cachingwordpress performance share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 looking for a gallery plugin for your wordpress website? we have showcased the best gallery… 20+ awesome premium and free under construction/coming soon wordpress themes – 2020 list of the best coming soon wordpress themes that you can use as landing, under… the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress if your business depends on showcasing your abilities or your past work, then surely you… 16 must-have buddypress plugins for online communities 2020 wordpress serves as a platform for many different kinds of websites, including social networking sites.… heroic knowledge base plugin review: build a knowledge base website with wordpress if you want to create a helpful resource for your readers, you can add a… 16 efficient event calendar plugins for wordpress 2020 event calendar plugins are popular and installed on many websites. they can be used for… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 15 nifty bbpress plugin add-ons for wordpress forums 2019 next post: the best wordpress calendar plugins for 2019 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×