wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide 50 most common wordpress errors and how to fix them posted on march 26th, 2020 by editorial staff while wordpress is really easy to use, there are some common wordpress errors that can make you panic. the good thing is that the wordpress error you are seeing on your site is most likely been reported and resolved by someone before you. at wpbeginner,… read more » the ultimate coronavirus small business guide – wordpress + tools to grow online posted on march 24th, 2020 by syed balkhi due to the coronavirus (covid-19) pandemic, there is a lot of uncertainty in the world, especially for small business owners. many small businesses are being forced to adapt and make critical changes just to survive. during these tough times, the world seems uncontrollable. that’s why… read more » how to learn wordpress for free in a week (or less) posted on march 19th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking to learn wordpress and build a website? ease of use is one of the best things about wordpress which makes it the world’s most popular website builder. learning wordpress does not require a lot of time or money. you can do it… read more » beginners guide: how to install a wordpress theme posted on march 17th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking to install a wordpress theme? there are thousands of wordpress themes available (both free and paid). as a beginner, you may want to try out a few of them on your site until you find the right one. in this beginner’s guide,… read more » how to make a logo for your website (simple guide for beginners) posted on march 16th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to make a logo for your website? perhaps you can’t afford a professional designer, but you’re worried that your graphic design skills aren’t up to the task. your logo is a crucial component of your brand’s identity. you want it to not… read more » how to code a website (complete beginner’s guide) posted on march 9th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to learn how to code a website? behind the scenes, most website code contains html, css, and javascript. as a beginner, learning these programming languages (even at a beginner level) requires hours of studying and practice. the good news for business owners… read more » how to properly add google adsense to your wordpress site posted on march 5th, 2020 by editorial staff google adsense is one of the most popular ways to monetize your website. it allows you to automatically sell your website’s ad space to advertisers and get paid. adsense is one of the easiest way to start making money online with your website. in this… read more » how to easily create a multilingual wordpress site posted on february 27th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to translate your wordpress site in multiple languages? wordpress powers more than 35% of all websites on the internet. many of them serve non-english or multilingual audiences. in this article, we will show you how to easily create a multilingual wordpress site.… read more » how to install a wordpress plugin – step by step for beginners posted on february 20th, 2020 by editorial staff after installing wordpress, the first thing every beginner needs to learn is how to install a wordpress plugin. in simple words, wordpress plugins are like apps for your wordpress website. they allow you to add new features to wordpress like a contact form, slideshow, shopping… read more » how to view the mobile version of wordpress sites from desktop posted on february 13th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to preview the mobile version of your wordpress site? previewing the mobile layout helps you see how your website looks on mobile devices. while you can certainly take a look at your live site on your phone, this doesn’t help during the… read more » 1 2 3 … 29 » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.