skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search wordpress free plugins home » wordpress free plugins the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 1 comment any person who is marketing any product or service online understands the value of an email list. it refers to a list of potential consumers for your product or service collected diligently over a period of time. the marketing automation… read more→ 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue march 27, 2020 rokr plugins 0 comments to start making the most with your blog, the simplest way is to use one of free wordpress advertising plugins. it can be a struggle to monetize your website, but by picking a solid tool, you can have your first… read more→ the best free wordpress font plugins to change fonts with ease 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 2 comments a major and important part of any web design is typography. the type of fonts that you use on your website reflects the nature of your website and can help to reinforce your brand in the visitors' minds. for instance,… read more→ 18 best free wordpress multilingual plugins for 2020 march 25, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 1 comment looking to translate your wordpress website into multiple languages? these wordpress translation plugins are here to help to do the task and make your website multilingual. people all over the world do not speak the same language. and so, it's… read more→ 17 best free wordpress paypal plugins for 2020 march 25, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 2 comments no one can dispute that online shopping has very much become a part of our daily lives. at some point of time or the other, most website owners and bloggers want to monetize their websites. what makes this possible is… read more→ 21 best free wordpress quiz plugins for 2020 march 25, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 1 comment need to run a quiz or survey on your website? these wordpress quiz plugins are exactly what you need! quizzes are a proven method to generate traffic to your website. they are a great option to get a reader to… read more→ the best amazon affiliate wordpress plugins for 2020 march 25, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 8 comments affiliate marketing is a great way to monetize a blog. many bloggers take on affiliate marketing as a means to establish either a primary or ancillary revenue stream. if affiliate marketing happens to be your cup of tea, you'll surely… read more→ 21 best free wordpress live chat plugins for 2020 march 24, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 3 comments today we would like to look into wordpress chat plugins to compare and find the best one for you and your business. a website serves multiple purposes - one of the chief purposes being to inform visitors about your products… read more→ the best wordpress call-to-action plugins to improve conversion march 23, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 1 comment when visitors land on a web page, they may or may not notice the many calls to action on the page. if you want them to notice the "sign up" or "contact us" buttons, you've got to catch their eye… read more→ the best wordpress media library management plugins 2020 march 17, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 3 comments nowadays, very few websites contain only text. a fair amount of screen space is devoted to images as well. audio, video and all combinations of media files are also included to reinforce text content. media inserts, too, help break up… read more→ top 5 responsive wordpress google reviews plugins march 13, 2020 aigars plugins 0 comments with the following wordpress google review plugins, you can show these comments on your site, enticing more visitors to go on the call-to-action section. good reviews make your website credible and trustworthy. so, make sure not to forget to include… read more→ top 5 responsive and easy-to-use wordpress news plugins this 2020 march 13, 2020 aigars plugins 0 comments the top 5 responsive and easy-to-use wordpress news plugins are what you truly need if you are running a news site to improve its functionalities. well, i have good news for you. you don’t have to search for them individually.… read more→ the best wordpress notification bar plugins for 2019 april 19, 2019 aigars silkalns plugins 1 comment notification bars are the narrow strips that appear at the top of the screen. generally they carry important announcements or messages, and a quick call to action button. they can be used for many purposes - recruiting new subscribers to… read more→ disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×