home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact menu home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact search close work with me thank you for your interest in working with the culture map. the culture map is a popular travel and culture blog written and curated by shing, a female traveller with a degree in english literature and a penchant for experiencing new things. the culture map appeals to a wide audience, from career professionals looking to capitalise upon their short holidays away from work to retirees looking to finally set sail on their lifelong dream. why work with the culture map? established blog the culture map has been around since 2012 and has been featured in the guardian, wanderlust, rolling stone magazine and several other high profile media outlets. the blog continues to grow its audience and portfolio of destinations. experienced shing has over 8 years’ experience in the luxury travel sector working in both product development and marketing. this means she has the unique perspective of knowing what travel companies require when they work with travel bloggers. creative if you’re looking for someone to enhance your brand, shing can curate a campaign to suit your needs or work with you to breath new life into your brand. previous brand partnerships have included thomas cook airlines, withlocals and various tourism boards site stats monthly visitors | 35,000+ site da | 48 social media followers instagram | 3000+ facebook | 2700+ twitter | 1700+ get in touch if you are interested in collaborating, contact me via the form below for more information and hopefully we can get the ball rolling. your name (required) your email (required) subject your message useful links home about blog work with me press popular iceland norway japan patagonia england facebook twitter instagram stay updated join my monthly newsletter for travel guides & tips email send