home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog 50 funny workout tanks august 27, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment too legit to quit burnout tank find the too legit to quit tank here. fit-ish (works out but definitely likes donuts) tank find the fit-ish (works out but definitely likes donuts) tank here i only do butt stuff at the gym tank find the i only do butt stuff at the gym tank here. friday is my second favorite "f" word tank find the friday is my second favorite "f" word … [read more...] pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 north face mountain athletics update june 9, 2015 by erin weiss leave a comment this post brought to you by the north face. the content and opinions expressed below are that of live life active. hey everyone! hope you're having a great week. so i just wanted to pop in to give a quick update about how my training has been going with the north face mountain athletics app that i spoke about a while ago in this post (mountain athletics). i used this app … [read more...] my morning wins & a healthy snack february 11, 2015 by erin weiss 3 comments being outside of the corporate world has been quite the adjustment. it’s forced me to really buckle down and create a structured schedule in order to get everything done that i want to while i work on growing live life active. the best part of not having a full time job at the moment is that i don’t have anyone telling me what to do! no more cruel bosses requesting a tps report … [read more...] the different types of gym selfies march 13, 2014 by erin weiss 1 comment selfies are oh-so-hot right now. they are taking over social media everywhere we look. the point of a posting a selfie online is to tell the world that you did something. when most people go to the gym, they want to scream it from the rooftops so all their friends think they live a super fit and healthy life. it's true what they say, right? [tweet ""if i don't post a … [read more...] my compound leg day workout february 28, 2014 by erin weiss 1 comment today is good old leg day over here. leg day used to be my favorite..now i have a love/hate relationship with it. i always switch up which workout day is my favorite, depending on which body part i want to work the most on and lately it's been my shoulders. legs are so important to train though because they contain some of the biggest muscle groups and will burn the most … [read more...] snow day workout february 5, 2014 by erin weiss 2 comments snowed in? got a case of cabin fever? no problem! try my new at home snow day workout. you don't need any equipment for this workout, just a small space in your warm home :) hint: hover over this image to pin to pinterest to remember to try later! if you want to talk to others who are doing this workout, share the image and tag #snowsweat on social media sites to … [read more...] killer core & guns at home workout february 1, 2014 by erin weiss 3 comments try this new at home workout for a killer core and upper body burn. after you try it, use #killercoreandgunsworkout on social media to tell me how it went!!! do all the workouts in a huge circuit before taking a rest. how many circuits can you dominate in one workout session? try it and then post to any social media how many times you could handle this. i challenge … [read more...] my year in review and my 2014 goals – live life active fitness blog january 3, 2014 by erin weiss 1 comment happy new year!!!!!!!!!!!! this was the first year in a long time that i didn't end up in a bar all night, drinking beers and indulging in late night food. i rang in the new year at my boyfriend's mom's house because his brother and nephews are in town from germany. i literally had a hard time staying awake until midnight. wow, as soon as i turned 30, i turn into a lame … [read more...] 3 week cancun cut october 28, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i can't believe i'll be in cancun in 3 weeks!!! i have been soooo busy with our rental home renovation that i haven't been able to focus enough on my diet & workouts. it finally sunk in this morning that i need to stay focused for the next three weeks or i will be mad at myself when i slip into my bikini in 3 weeks. i'm going to cancun with a group of 6 of my close … [read more...] fitness inspired costume ideas october 9, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments with halloween right around the corner, i wanted to let you know of a few fun fitness inspired costumes i've thought of. fitness inspired costume ideas color runner we have all seen pictures from those who participated in a color run (color me rad, color run, run or dye...), so why not dress up as one of these colorful runners for halloween?? just wear a white shirt … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in