skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me work with me thank you for your interest in working together! as of june 2019, i have 3.4+ million combined social media followers (ig, fb, yt, tw, sc) and 850+ million video views across facebook and youtube. while i’ve been heavily focused on video making, i’ve still managed to grow this blog to 25k monthly visitors since launching in july 2016. i am open to a variety of collaborations, including brand sponsorships, promotional videos, ig stories takeovers, product reviews, social media campaigns and more. about this blog: i launched drewbinsky.com in july 2016, after spending 3 years growing my original travel blog (hungry partier) to 170k+ monthly visitors and obtaining more than 200k social media followers. on my new blog here, you’ll find a more simplified, professional and personal space dedicated to sharing my lifestyle, travel tips and insights that i’ve picked up from visiting 166+ countries since 2012. social media numbers: in total, i have more than 3.4m+ social media followers across all networks. i was also ranked the #1 male travel blogger in the world by huffington post. by the numbers: – facebook: 2,100,000+ – youtube: 760,000+ – instagram: 251,500+ – snapchat: 95,000k+ – twitter: 67,000k+ – other (pinterest, google +, musical.ly, linked in,): 52,000+ partnerships i’ve worked on campaigns with a number of brands and tourism boards, who have leveraged my loyal audience of travelers to help them achieve their goals. please contact me and i can send you my media kit along with case studies from previous collaborations. in the press: my persona, writing and travel knowledge has been featured on hundreds of online publications, tv networks and print agencies (see complete list here). here are some of my most notable features: writing: i am a regular contributor to huffington post, elite daily, u.s. news & travel, yahoo travel, thought catalog + more. brand collaborations: i have partnered with gopro, g adventures, booking.com, allianz travel insurance, hurtigruten, tripit, lonely planet, citizen watches, + more. tourism board collaborations: germany tourism, south korea tourism, visit jordan, visit california, visit florida, hilton head tourism, bolivia tourism, ireland tourism, visit fiji, suriname tourism, koryo tours north korea, mauritius tourism, on snapchat: i’ve done snapchat takeovers for bleacher report, tripit, the infatuation, spoon tv, lonely planet, elite daily, yahoo travel + more. tv segments: i’ve been interviewed on the following tv networks: ktla, fox 6 wisconsin, news fix dallas, fox 10 phoenix, az central, channel 12 news. i also have a weekly travel segment called travel fix with drew binsky that airs every thursday at 5 & 9pm on the cw33 news fix network (channel 33) in dallas, houston and miami. testimonials “drew engages his audience with informative and insightful travel tips with great personality! germany was and is eager to work with him in order to reach an audience that simply put-travels differently. drew understands what his followers want to see and he is a pleasure to work with: from the planning stages of a trip to the on-the-ground moments. he’s always willing to try new ideas, receive feedback, but also provide it. brands aspiring to reach the snapchat traveler shouldn’t miss the opportunity to work with drew as he grows his fan-base.” – john voigt, marketing manager of germany national tourism office “drew had the opportunity to dream big in california on a 6-day, 1,000-mile road trip spanning los angeles, north lake tahoe, mammoth lakes and yosemite national park. throughout the experience, drew went above-and-beyond in his content creation, providing his – and our – audience with imagery that was creative, beautiful and informative. we enjoyed working with drew very much and would recommend working with him.” – molly okumura, media relations coordinator of visit california “we worked with drew on a 4 day campaign in suriname and he was very professional and easy to work with. he did a great job sharing content from the various tours he went on around the country. drew has a fun personality and a great relationship with his followers on snapchat and instagram. i highly recommend working with drew, as he goes above and beyond his potential.” – jerry akum, manager of suriname tourism foundation “for a global adventure travel premium brand such as hurtigruten, integrity is the name of the game. we only collaborate with influencers we feel are representing us truly. we’re authentic, and we expect the same from our partners. we are proud of having hosted drew on an antarctica expedition voyage with hurtigruten. and we are looking forward to inviting him to new north of the arctic circle unprecedented experiences. this guy is to be trusted. – øystein knoph, vp global pr, hurtigruten get in touch if interested in working together, please contact me at drew [at] drewbinsky [dot] com, or fill out the contact form below. thank you! recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.