home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog 10 days until show time! september 12, 2012 by erin weiss 5 comments i'm 10 days out from my first bikini competition!!! holy craaaaaaaaaaaap i'm only 10 days away from my first fitness competition. i am freaking out a bit over here. i'm so nervous and excited to get the show on the road. i've also been planning the fun stuff for after my show. i plan on going out in chicago with my best friends and my entire plan is focused around what i'm … [read more...] gym with the parents april 30, 2012 by erin weiss 3 comments i'm actually really glad it's monday. did i really just say that? i don't know if i've ever typed that in my life before. hah!! lately i love getting back to my routine on monday mornings. it's so hard for me to stay on track with my nutrition and workouts on the weekend. i'm so much better at it when i have a set schedule that i've got nailed down. i had a great weekend. my … [read more...] spring flowers have arrived! march 8, 2012 by erin weiss 3 comments i am totally itching for summer to get here lately. even though this has been the most amazing winter of my life (weather wise), i just can't wait for spring and summer! spring is my favorite time of the year. i feel like everyone's moods change for the better as the weather gets warmer. i walked up to my house yesterday and saw our first flowers blooming!! woohoo!!! … [read more...] crazy 8 workout march 2, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment here is my newest workout. i like to call it the crazy 8 workout! i completed this on the treadmill, but you can do this workout on any machine! all you have to do is modify the high and low speeds to your liking. the low speed on this workout was 4mph. the high speed was 8mph. i set the treadmill to 4mph and walked for a warm up for 3 minutes. after 3 minutes, … [read more...] race to wrigley is sold out!!! april 21, 2010 by erin weiss 3 comments thanks to everyone on their advice on which race i should do. one of my friends just informed me that the race to wrigley 5k is now sold out. :( :( :( i guess i waited to long to register for that one. it looks like i'll do the firefighters race on thursday especially since it's supposed to be sunny out. hopefully i register in time for that one. tuesday was an icky day. … [read more...] go butler! april 2, 2010 by erin weiss 7 comments happy friday!!! butler weekend is finally here. indy is getting crazy as the ncaa tournament and big game is getting closer. since we are not going to the game anymore, we are renting out a private room at one of the popular bars with all you can drink and eat for 3 hours. should be a great time. it will be unbelievable if butler can pull through this and make it to the … [read more...] hungry girl april 1, 2010 by erin weiss 8 comments eyyylloooo! happy thursday. we're almost to the weekend, kids! hang in there. wednesday was filled with sunshine, a run, books, food and house flippin'. i started the day with some oatmeal. i just can't get myself to like this stuff. i want to like it, but just don't. i think i need to find some good mix-ins that are low cal for me to like it. i just had plain oats … [read more...] that’s a bullseye march 31, 2010 by erin weiss 5 comments happy humpy day! tuesday started with two pieces of aunt millies bread. no spread, just plain wheat bread. i really need to start brining some type of low cal spread in to add to this bread. it's getting old real fast. the bread is very low cal but has lots of fiber in it and holds me until lunch. that's why i eat it. lunch i decided i'd go to subway to try out a salad … [read more...] jillian michaels ifit sd card – get fit treadmill review march 22, 2010 by erin weiss leave a comment jillian michaels ifit sd card this is my third and final review for jillian michaels ifit sd card - level 1 - get fit. i gave the card a third and final chance last night. i cranked up the card to one of the last levels on the 8 week program. after about 10 minutes, i ended up turning it off because the workout wasn't as intense as i'd like it to be. i felt that it was a … [read more...] i finally made a spinach smoothie (green monster) march 19, 2010 by erin weiss 8 comments after many days of skepticism from reading other blogs, i decided to see what all the rave was relating to the green monster drink that many of you drink daily. after my run last night, i popped a few things into the blender, including some spinach and mixed it all up. if you remember from a few days earlier, i was talking about how i don't like spinach. i bought some and … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in