menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login category “work fulfillment” when you want to make progress fast and feel impatient by megan schowalter “tortoise was over the line. after that, hare always reminded himself, ‘don’t brag about your lightning pace, for slow and steady won the race!‘“ ~the tortoise and the hare (aesop’s fables) i was sitting in an introduction to calligraphy workshop … if you think reaching your goal will make you happy… by james kane the path is the goal. the process is more important than the result. life is a journey, not a destination. there are three very common, some might say cheesy and clichéd sayings you may hear when it comes to taking … 20 life-changing tools, 95% off—one week, starting today by lori deschene first things first, happy 2020! it’s a new year, filled with promise and possibility. if last year was tough for you, it’s now in the rearview mirror. if it was full of blessings and opportunities, you’re likely excited to see … what i now know after feeling miserable and worthless at work by leah masonick “you don’t need anyone’s affection or approval in order to be good enough. when someone rejects or abandons or judges you, it isn’t actually about you. it’s about them and their own insecurities, limitations, and needs, and you don’t have … how to move forward when you’re out of work and feeling lost by tazeem weljie “my attitude has always been, if you fall flat on your face, at least you’re moving forward. all you have to do is get back up and try again.” ~richard branson let’s face it, losing a job sucks! over the … how to reach your goal (and why three people showing up isn’t failure) by claire o'connor “if you believe it will work out, you’ll see opportunities. if you believe it won’t, you will see obstacles.” ~wayne dyer i’ve been part of a social meet-up group for the past few years, one that’s helped me through tricky … how to keep going when you’re not good at something new by lori deschene i believe the people who are the most satisfied in life are those who feel the most alive. we generally feel most alive when we propel ourselves out of our comfort zone and seize new possibilities for meaning, excitement, and … slow, imperfect progress is better than none at all by lori deschene “when perfectionism is driving, shame is riding shotgun, and fear is that annoying backseat driver.” brené brown sometimes i feel like the girl who cried film. i first wrote a blog post introducing tiny buddha productions three years ago, and … what to ask yourself when you feel lost, unsure, or confused by danielle larock “the quality of your life is a direct reflection of the quality of the questions you are asking yourself.” ~tony robbins i am naturally inclined to do—to go, to move, to take action. slowing down takes a lot of … how to get past doubt and do what you really want to do by joseph pennington “doubt everything. find your own light.” ~the buddha as far back as i can remember, i’ve allowed my life to be shaped by external forces. on the outside, it appeared like i was just another carefree soul, living in the … it’s okay to ‘fail’ on your way to finding what you want to do by adam bergen “life isn’t about finding yourself. life is about creating yourself.” ~george bernard shaw i would say it’s a safe assumption that most people aren’t quite sure what they’re doing. what do i mean? i mean that most individuals—whether they look … how to pick your best idea (especially if you suffer from idea overload!) by brian vaszily “it’s not about ideas. it’s about making ideas happen.” ~scott belsky in virtually every human pursuit, from personal growth to the arts to business, ideas and the execution of those ideas is what drives us forward. and when it comes … why we push ourselves too hard and how to work less by mike fishbein “never get so busy making a living that you forget to make a life.” ~unknown i was sitting on the beach with my wonderful girlfriend, trying to relax on our vacation in florida, yet i was racked with anxiety. we … sometimes the safe path is not the right path by jen picicci “as soon as you trust yourself, you will know how to live.” ~johann wolfgang von goethe when i was a kid, i wanted to be an artist. i loved to draw, especially, and even took art classes on the weekends … leaping into the unknown: why we don’t always need a plan by louise watson “you don’t always need a plan. sometimes you just need to breathe, trust, let go, and see what happens.” ~mandy hale wake up. wish i could go back to sleep. get up and ready for work. tell myself that today … think you’re not good enough? how to stop holding yourself back by kolyanne russ “stop holding yourself back. if you aren’t happy, make a change.” ~unknown growing up in a culture where physical beauty determines how successful you are in finding a job, a suitable husband, and a promising career, and most importantly, bringing … unreasonable boss? 8 ways to honor yourself in a toxic workplace by leah de souza-thomas “good bosses care about getting important things done. exceptional bosses care about their people.” ~jeff haden “i’ll need you to log your work down to the minute on this spreadsheet,” she said pointing to my computer where an elaborate timesheet … are you a multipotentialite? what to do when you have many interests by usha mv “i think a singular identity isn’t very interesting, and i’m a little bit more multifaceted as a person than that.” ~catherine opie are you a person who gets inspiring ideas every day? do you wake up, galvanized with such thoughts, … you don’t need to have your whole life figured out right now by armando quintana “on any one day you can massively change the direction of your life.” ~jim rohn have you ever felt as though you needed to have your whole life figured out right now? when we’re young, we are often encouraged to … how to stop doubting yourself so you can go after your dreams by alison breen “the gap between what we do and what we’re capable of doing would suffice to solve most of the world’s problems.” ~gandhi i have lived most of my life with a challenging contradiction. i am a hopeless idealist and dreamer. … page 1 of 1112345...10...»last » translate free download: buddha desktop wallpaper recent forum topics abandonment issues & experiencing love? breakup, cheating, bad fight, just looking for advice? heartbroken lost lonely _ how move on emotional learning journey what should i do? have i tried hard enough? not feeling motivated lately need some inspiration! maintaining self in relationships please guys, i really need your advice. break up and third party situation my girlfriend said she has a soulmate but it isn't me fun & inspiring don’t let social distance lead to emotional distance get more fun & inspiring images & videos. latest posts 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be if you think people-pleasing is being kind… stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing 3 approaches to the coronavirus (and which is smartest) disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top