skip to content college info geek working and learning from home menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills remote view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new remote work, learn, and succeed from the comforts of your own home. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search working and learning from home these days, digital tools make it easier than ever to work, study, or teach remotely. but even with the best tools in the world, working remotely can still be a challenge, especially if you’re new to it. to help your remote work go smoothly, we’ve put together this page. below, you’ll find guides to help you stay organized, resist distractions, and do your best work…all from the comfort of your home. you’ll also find a variety of digital tools to make your remote work easier and more effective. whether you’re a student taking online classes, a professional working remotely, or an educator looking to improve your virtual teaching, this page is here to help you. stay organized how to create a great study space (with examples) how to easily stay organized and productive in college how to tame your email and reach inbox zero the best way to organize your files and folders communicate like a pro the beginner’s guide to professional communication how to write a networking email that gets a response (with templates) resist distractions and stay focused how to actually stop wasting time on the internet the flow state: how to enter your brain’s most productive state feeling overwhelmed? these 8 techniques can help how to stop procrastinating: the only guide you’ll ever need find the best apps for staying productive the 25+ best productivity apps in 2020 the best to-do list app in 2020 – our top 12 picks the 9 best calendar apps to stay organized in 2020 the 11 best note-taking apps in 2020 – evernote, notion, and more the best time tracking apps in 2020: toggl, clockify, and more these flashcard apps will help you study better in 2020 the 10 best habit tracking apps in 2020 essential apps for working and studying from home evernote - note manager this app can be described as my second brain. all my class notes, ideas, blog post research, important scraps of information, non-important scraps of information, half-finished rap lyrics, story drafts, and everything else is stored in evernote. as a guy who works across windows, mac, and ios, i still have not found a better option for general note-taking and information capture. also, they offer a 50% student discount! manage your notes evernote hacks todoist a beautifully simple task-tracking app. it’s free (with premium features for less than $2.50/month), syncs across all platforms and devices (and the web), has recurring tasks, multiple lists, and is pretty to boot. get started google calendar this has been my trusty calendar ever since my freshman year. learning to use it early on helped me become a pro at managing my time - an essential skill in college. as a bonus, you can also show your wunderlist tasks as calendar events if you want. manage your time how i use mine the ultimate study music playlist i study far, far more effectively when i'm listening to music - as long as it's the right kind of music. this is a playlist of 160-odd songs i've been building; it's got a ton of variety, and features music from video game soundtracks, movie/anime scores, and artists from many genres. start listening scanbot - document scanning app one of the coolest things about evernote is its optical character recognition - you can scan in paper notes, and it'll make the text searchable. don't go and buy a scanner for this purpose, though - the scanbot app will do it for free on your iphone or android. it auto-finds documents, scans them, and sends them wherever you want - evernote, google drive, dropbox, and even todoist. digitize notes chegg study sometimes you get stuck on a homework problem and no one's around to help you with it - and that's when chegg study comes in handy. with a massive database of step-by-step solutions to problems in thousands of textbooks, chegg study can help you check your homework answers and finish assignments more quickly. get started freedom - distraction blocker it's so easy to procrastinate when you have easy access to distracting websites and apps. freedom is a program that solves this problem by simply blocking them when you're working. among all the apps that do this, freedom works best for me because it works on all my devices - no sneaky redditing on my phone. block distractions tomatotimer - pomodoro timer one of the most effective ways to immediately stop procrastinating is to use the pomodoro technique: set a timer for 25 minutes, commit to one task, and do nothing but that task until the timer dings. i do this almost every day, and i use tomatotimer - a free browser-based app - as my timer. get stuff done zoom zoom is our top recommendation for holding virtual meetings, classes, and other video calls. it's a lot more reliable than skype, and up to 100 people can meet at once on the free plan. zoom also lets you share your screen, making it useful for lectures and presentations. get started google drive - file syncing and backup the most essential app ever for anyone who uses a computer. keeps your files backed up and synced across all your computers and devices, as well as on the web. forget your paper on your home computer? no worries, it's in drive. sync your files relevant podcast episodes morning routines (ep. 208) building the perfect day (ep. 264) how to build the perfect workspace (ep. 254) productivity lessons from video game design (ep. 265) how to change careers (ep. 287) how youtubers, podcasters, and online personalities make money (ep. 269) how to achieve work-life balance (ep. 234) how to improve your fitness — without going to the gym (ep. 231) how to build strong habits (ep. 214) what we learned from reading “deep work” (ep. 140) more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.