skip to content skip to footer nia shanks health and fitness information that doesn't suck newsletter start here starter guide finally get results course articles all articles audio articles about shop books workout programs apparel login my profile workout programs & courses welcome! this is where you will find courses and workout programs for your goals and preferences. there’s also a guide at the end that helps you select the best option for you, if you’re having trouble deciding. six-month course the beautiful badass lab a six-phase strength training program. get a new four-week program (complete with exercise-demonstration videos and printable workouts logs) delivered to your inbox each month, for six months. if you want a completely done-for-you workout program every four weeks that includes a variety of exercises to keep you motivated, this is the program for you. the beautiful badass lab includes exercise-demonstrations videos, membership to the private facebook group for support, and printable workout logs. click here for more information. “i’ve had such success with this program and find it so easy to stay on track … i can’t say enough how much this has all changed my life.” -charlotte workout programs below are workout programs designed for specific goals (lose fat, get stronger) and preferences (time-saving workouts, dumbbell-only workouts). build a leaner, stronger body in just 48 workouts. and feel awesome doing it. if you’ve been working out and eating well, but your body isn’t changing, this is the program for you. this is a 12-week system for those beyond the beginners stages of strength training who can dedicate to working out four times per week who want to lose fat and build muscle. you’ll get everything you need to change how your body looks in 12 weeks: a done-for-you workout program, starter guide, nutrition guide, exercise-demonstration videos, spreadsheet trackers. click here for more information. “some of my belly fat literally melted away.” -michelle “i feel amazing and my clothes are fitting better.” -erin you don’t have a lot of time to spend at the gym … or perhaps you simply don’t want to spend a lot of time working out. if that describes you, then the time-saver program is what you need. this is the program for the individual who wants to achieve great results with just three 30-minute workouts per week. choose from the 8-week time-saver program or the advanced package that includes an advanced rest/pause time-saver program. everything you need is included: easy-to-understand instructions, printable workout logs, and exercise-demonstration videos. click here for more information. want to do something empowering that makes you feel great about yourself? get stronger and discover the amazing things your body can do. the strong 14-week strength program is designed to build a stronger deadlift and bench press, and secondarily the squat. the program calls for 3 workouts per week and uses mostly barbell exercises. it’s a done-for-you program complete with clear instructions, printable workout logs, exercise-demonstration videos, and spreadsheet trackers. click here for more information. “i feel like everything i needed to succeed was laid out.” -michelle “i didn’t know what i was capable of lifting and ended up really surprising myself with the progress made.” -karen “i’ve noticed more definition in my legs which is usually the last place i see change.” -beth do you have a set of dumbbells at home? do you need workouts you can do with minimum equipment? or do you simply prefer dumbbell exercises? if so, this is the guide for you. the dumbbell strength training guide includes an 8-week dumbbell strength training program and a 4-week time-crunch program. both programs include clean, easy-to-use workout logs and a complete exercise-demonstration video index. click here for more information. what’s best for you? would you like maximum variety with your workouts and a place you can ask questions and get support directly from nia? want to look forward to receiving a new workout every four weeks for the next six months? you want the beautiful badass lab. are you mostly interested in changing how your body looks and can you work out four times per week? do you want to lose fat and build muscle with a done-for-you program that requires zero guesswork? then get revamp. are you mostly interested in discovering what your body can do and want to get stronger with barbell exercises while working out three days per week? then get strong. do you need workouts you can complete in as little as 30 minutes? do you prefer to work out just three times per week? then the time-saver program is what you want. do you have access to nothing but a variety of dumbbells (or an adjustable dumbbell set) and an adjustable weight bench? the dumbbell strength training guide is for you. footer if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. fields marked with a * are required. join the revolution get updates, insider-only information, and a free gift. if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. facebook instagram twitter youtube search this website © 2020 nia shanks · privacy policy · disclaimer newsletter you’re here for a reason contact store