about press podcast archive hire michael get coaching free training contact select page work with michael my real passion is training and coaching, not only on the microphone, but in large groups as well. i’m inspired by the people i’m around, and the “aha moments” i see from that one thing that triggers someone’s inspiration. following are ways you and i can create together: podcast consulting as the producer of the kickass life, mechanic to millionaire, and a number of other podcasts, as well as the host of the solopreneur hour, i can take my 20 years of music and broadcast experience and help you launch your own brand or show. contact michael for more information about podcast consulting public speaking/event speaking i’ve traveled and trained thousands of people at live events and seminars all over north america. in fact, it’s one of my favorite things to do. contact to find out about having michael speak at your event, or to your team. social media training 4 years ago, i launched its@boutsocial, a social media training company specifically for network marketers and solopreneurs. i’ve trained dozens of private network marketing teams, insurance companies, hair salons, and any other company where the company is really the person. click here to learn about social media training for your team. network marketing if you’re one of the people that believes in network marketing as a business model (i am) and are looking to work with a great team, i’m recently on one of the fastest growing teams in the country. we have a killer product, an amazing, supportive team surrounded by millionaire mentorship, a company led with integrity, and a tried and true system to build a passive and residual income for yourself. even if you’re skeptical or a total newbie, we’ll take care of you, and get you started in business for less than $200. click here to go to the contact page and send michael a message. private coaching fill out my online form. <a href="https://solohour.wufoo.com/forms/mfh4bsl0zzwx4b/def/entsource=wordpress" rel="nofollow">fill out my wufoo form!</a> search for: subscribe to podcast on apple podcastson androidon google playon stitchervia rssmore subscribe options highlighted youtube video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0u3k0gyrxp4&t=1116s copyright® 2019 proudly unemployable, llc