home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog project bikini body workout may 4, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment bikini body workout it's almost time to slip on that bikini and head to the beach. how exciting, right?!?! if you're anything like me, you've been planning your trips to the beach or thinking about finally booking that catamaran boat you've been eyeing all winter long. gosh wasn't this past winter just terrible by the way?! if you're looking for a good cardio workout, … [read more...] this is what fast feels like – speedform sprint workout april 8, 2014 by erin weiss 2 comments you know it's going to be a good day when you get home and find a huge surprise package waiting for you at your doorstep from finish line. this time it wasn't just a pair of shoes...it was way, way cooler. it was a jet!! with shoes in it. how friggin' cool, right?!?! it was a huge blue jet with my shoes in it! talk about the best marketing ever!! i'll have … [read more...] jamie eason’s 30 day knockout total body workout march 10, 2014 by erin weiss 2 comments at lunch today i decided to try a workout that jamie eason recently created for fitnessrx.com. the workout is called jamie eason's 30 day knockout total body workout. see the full workout here. as always, i trust any workout that jamie eason comes up with. i had such great success with her livefit program (my results) that i figured i'd give this one a try too. i don't … [read more...] t25 alpha cardio workout & puma faas 300 v3 march 7, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment yesterday i spent the day working from home. at lunch, i threw on some workout clothes and some new kicks and tried beachbody's t25 alpha cardio workout for the first time. t25 is the newest workout that beachbody has released. shaun t is back at it with a shorter but just as intense workout as his other dvds. it was a lot like insanity but shorter. the workout is … [read more...] my compound leg day workout february 28, 2014 by erin weiss 1 comment today is good old leg day over here. leg day used to be my favorite..now i have a love/hate relationship with it. i always switch up which workout day is my favorite, depending on which body part i want to work the most on and lately it's been my shoulders. legs are so important to train though because they contain some of the biggest muscle groups and will burn the most … [read more...] red carpet workout february 26, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment as this sunday's 86th academy awards approaches, i thought i'd share with you a workout i created so you can work the red carpet as well. while you watch all the celebrities rocking their tight bodies in their glamorous dresses, let's work on our very own hollywood body! as soon as the show starts, get ready to start your workout. any time one of the items on my list … [read more...] puma mobium xt shoes review & the puma boom workout to improve speed & strength february 21, 2014 by erin weiss 2 comments i've got some awesome new shoes to share with you guys today!! the fabulous folks at puma were kind enough to send me a pair of puma mobium xt shoes to review. first impression....purple, pink, light and super cute! basically...yes, yes, yes, and yes! "the mobium xt is lightweight, minimal, breathable, and sleek – with support in all the right places. key design … [read more...] snow day workout february 5, 2014 by erin weiss 2 comments snowed in? got a case of cabin fever? no problem! try my new at home snow day workout. you don't need any equipment for this workout, just a small space in your warm home :) hint: hover over this image to pin to pinterest to remember to try later! if you want to talk to others who are doing this workout, share the image and tag #snowsweat on social media sites to … [read more...] 30 day plank challenge february 3, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment try my new 30 day plank challenge. don't think you can plank for this long? you'd be surprised what a 30 day challenge can do to strengthen your core! start today and put your core to the test! 30 day plan challenge hint: hover over this plank challenge image to pin to pinterest to save or remember for later! how to plank place the forearms on the ground with the elbows … [read more...] killer core & guns at home workout february 1, 2014 by erin weiss 3 comments try this new at home workout for a killer core and upper body burn. after you try it, use #killercoreandgunsworkout on social media to tell me how it went!!! do all the workouts in a huge circuit before taking a rest. how many circuits can you dominate in one workout session? try it and then post to any social media how many times you could handle this. i challenge … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in