the blog according to buzz calgary calgary for families seen in calgary calgary eats daytrips stampede festivals food maybe it was something i ate recipes wine beer team diabetes explore camping hikes alberta banff canmore kananaskis badlands edmonton things for kids and dads in calgary canada usa north america south america europe africa asia australia to do list personal family geek news editorial sports shopping fashion radio interviews celebrity scrapbook search for work with buzz bishop dad. broadcaster. writer. guinness world record holder. team diabetes champion. hi, i’m buzz bishop. i live in calgary with my wife and 2 boys. i’m an experienced media professional with more than 25 yrs experience in radio and tv broadcasting, and more than 20 yrs experience writing online. currently i co-host the morning program in calgary at xl 103. i also host weekends on z95-3 vancouver. on television, i have hosted programs, been a frequent contributor and guest, as well as a sought out sound bite for reporters. in 1995 i helped launched the first radio station website in canada, and have been writing online ever since. there are 3 websites within my cyberbuzz media umbrella. cyberbuzz is for tech, dadcamp is parenting, while the blog according to buzz is personal stories, travel, and local insights. in addition to writing for my own sites, i have contributed to disney’s babble.com, daily hive, and the huffington post. blogging for charity i do branded campaigns in exchange for donations to team diabetes canada and have raised in excess of $100 000 for diabetes canada since 2007. in 2015 i was appointed southern alberta regional chair of diabetes canada and am committed to raising awareness and funds to better the health of canadians. media kit statistics as an early adopter of technology and social media, i have spread my social wings to create a tribe of more than 58,000 followers (as of jan ’20) across a variety of social media platforms. 6.4k @dadcamp 12.4k @buzzbishop 2.8k /dadcamp 3k /buzzbishop 3.7k @dadcamp.ca 11.9k @buzzbishop 200 /dadcamp 7.9k /buzzbishop 250 /dadcamptube 9.2k /z953buzz cyberbuzz media content reached more than 6.3m in 2018! as a legacy media veteran, i understand advertising rules and standards. i do not participate in link pods, quid pro quo commenting, sharing circles, purchasing of engagement, followers, or any other shady tactics employed by many influencers. i do not create cut-and-paste content. i pride myself on creating engaging, shareable stories where the brand is a tangential part of the process. native content on my site reads just like the other stories and adventures i naturally tell. my content is original, authentic, and the engagement you see is legitimately earned. collaboration interests i have worked with brands like general mills, best buy, coca-cola, unilever, ford, hyundai, toyota, subaru, tangerine, rbc, direct energy, scotts, netflix and more. product features my blog network will feature product news and reviews by myself and/or my family. we have worked with sc johnson, kobo, hot wheels, dell, lego, hasbro and others. reviews and announcements partnered with giveaways is a great way to bring attention and traffic to your product. recently i did a campaign with michael hill jewellers. as my wife and i celebrated our 10th wedding anniversary, i worked with michael hill jewellers to pull off a re-proposal to my wife in the same spot we were engaged – the top of the eiffel tower! the campaign featured a live instagram feed, stories, frames, tweets, facebook posts, and a blog post. brand ambassadorship i have worked with real canadian superstore on consecutive campaigns to promote their brand to a wider audience. my content is consistently engaging and highlighted for its creativity and on-point brand messaging. i have more than 25 years experience in broadcast media and more than 20 years experience in online media. i understand how the two media worlds are different and how they can be used together to raise brand awareness. i am available to advocate for your brand as a spokesperson to demonstrate products on television programs, as an interview guest on radio, or to present keynotes at conferences and trade shows. i have worked ces hosting content for future shop / best buy. i have produced weekly segments for global news and breakfast television, and i have been a guest on ctv and cbc. i have also worked as an ambassador on longer term campaigns for brands like peloton, mark’s, real canadian superstore, netflix, best buy, hyundai canada, telus, peekaboo beans, scotts, and sport chek. press/fam trips press trips are a great way to work together for mutual benefit. being able to personally experience what you have to offer, i can then share this with my readers to give them a clear picture of your services. it is an effective and easy way to reach out to your targeted market. i worked with disney canada to highlight their halloween season, producing a series of videos starring my son, as well as instagram posts, and blogs. i have also worked with tourism idaho, tourism jasper, expedia, canadian badlands, visit medicine hat, visit gold coast, pursuit collection, and alberta parks on travel related campaigns. please contact me for more information. public speaking through my nearly 30-year radio career, i have had the opportunity to emcee everything from a britney spears concert to award ceremonies to corporate breakfast launches. i have been on roundtables, panels, and have conducted interview sessions with artists like christina aguilera, mick jagger, janet jackson, rob thomas, no doubt, and beyonce. i’m comfortable on stage in front of a crowd and have been asked to speak on a variety of topics ranging from popular culture to technology and trends to parenting. speaking at dad 2.0 summit in san diego press i am a regular quote for cnn and my stories have been chat fodder on the view, fox and friends, good morning america, cbs this morning, and the bert show. my content has been referenced in the daily mail, cbc, global television, perezitos, maclean’s, slate, and more. my stories and content get noticed. here’s a list of articles i have been featured in. my instagram content has also been shared and repurposed by brands like westjet magazine, ancestry, ancestry canada, explore canada, travel alberta, canmore kananaskis, air rarotonga and others. endorsements “buzz bishop is the perfect collision of two media worlds. he has built a thriving career in traditional media, while at the same creating communities in the social space and becoming a pace-setter in new media.” – steve jones, vp/programming stingray radio, author “brand like a rock star” “buzz bishop *is* a social network. he lives and breathes in the tech world 24/7 and knows how to build an engaged community around technology, social networking, and everything pop culture.” – tod maffin, president, engageq digital “[buzz bishop] links to his always-compelling pieces about modern fatherhood… if you’re looking for think pieces and hot topics, this is your man.” – shelley white, the huffington post “[buzz] bishop is an information addict and pop-culture junkie — but you could also call him a media artist. he sucks up cultural information, reorganizes it into a dazzling format that makes listeners laugh and makes them feel smart.” – the vancouver sun contact so, what do you think? can we work together? hit me up buzzbishop[at]gmail[dot]com. [updated jan 2020 – blog page views via google analytics] first name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: (visited 488 times, 1 visits today) leave a reply cancel reply instagram follow @buzzbishop! networks the blog according to buzz is part of the cyberbuzz media network: dadcamp- a site for creative and modern parents cyberbuzz - technology and media commentary permissions for licenses to republish any image on this site, please contact the publisher. copyright © 2007 – 2019 · all rights reserved.