u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost work/life. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition work/life zone 1 this is what job hunting during the coronavirus pandemic is like zone 2 try out these 12 zoom hacks to improve your next virtual meetup the coronavirus stimulus plan is here, but will you get a cut? zoom can track who’s not paying attention in your video call. here’s how. what you need to know about filing for unemployment insurance no, you don’t have to be extra productive during the coronavirus pandemic how women get it done huffpost finds 10 work-from-home office setup ideas for peak productivity 30 desks for small spaces that aren’t a nightmare to build what to wear to work — when you work at home brought to you by huffpost finds zone 3 the coronavirus bill's anti-layoff provisions companies can reduce hours instead of doing layoffs, and the government will pay part of the missing wages. 7 steps to take now if you're worried you might lose your job what steps to take and bills to prioritize as unemployment spreads with the coronavirus. how to improve your work-from-home space when you don't have a desk no desk? no problem. these finds will help you stay organized even if you're working from your bed. some senate republicans want lower coronavirus unemployment payments their complaints could upend a bill crafted over several days of intense negotiations. it was hard living paycheck to paycheck before coronavirus. now it’s impossible. "how will so many of us continue to pay bills, juggle child care and work and live on such limited — and now vanishing — funds?" new coronavirus bill has 'unemployment insurance on steroids' more workers would qualify and would receive bigger benefits. as a grocery store worker, i'm on the frontline of coronavirus and i'm overwhelmed "suddenly, i’ve been promoted from invisible hummus stocker to brave service provider." americans want paid sick leave for coronavirus. why won't congress deliver? it’s “beyond shameful” that senate majority leader mitch mcconnell won't prioritize it, one advocate says. we want to answer your coronavirus questions what questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. uninsured and worried about covid-19? you may be able to get covered. several states have reopened their health insurance exchanges for a short time. elsewhere, enrollment may be possible for those who lose their job. what working while sick taught me about the risk of coronavirus for all of us restaurant workers will show up to work sick because they need the money and the job. house cleaners are out of work and unprotected amid the coronavirus pandemic one house cleaner lost all her clients. another is worried about being infected if she goes to work. neither will get paid if they stay home. what to do if you're put on unpaid leave over coronavirus workers are already being asked or forced to take time off without pay because of covid-19. 10 ways to practice solidarity in a time of social distancing there are ways to help people without putting yourself or others at risk from covid-19. 14 funny tweets about suddenly working from home because we could all use a laugh right now. workers at these companies say they can’t get sick leave a terrifying prospect in the middle of the coronavirus epidemic: more than half of workers at the biggest chains can't get time off when they're ill. how to work from home and actually get sh*t done whether you're self-isolating because of coronavirus or working from home due to social-distancing measures, here's how to make your day as productive as possible. not that many americans can actually work from home during the coronavirus outbreak telecommuting tends to be a luxury for higher earners. the nature of service jobs, in particular, can make it impossible. the huffpost guide to working from home if you're working remotely because of the coronavirus pandemic, we've got you covered. self-isolating for coronavirus? here's how to avoid cabin fever weeks on your own might be the dream for some, but it can quickly become frustrating. see more follow us! icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. newsletter sign up an essential daily guide to achieving the good life subscribe to our lifestyle email. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost work/life. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.