skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search category: worst airline ever delta and others try to fix alitalia, but they’ll fail delta and others try to fix alitalia, but they’ll fail after years of delays and failures, the worst airline ever, alitalia, has a shiny new reorganization plan which will thrust it into the pantheon of the world’s great airlines. i almost wrote that without laughing. perhaps i’m overstating things. there is no actual “plan,” or at least none that has … cf on aug 2, 2019 aug 6, 2019 delta, easyjet, and the italian government show interest in the worst airline ever delta, easyjet, and the italian government show interest in the worst airline ever it’s been well over a year since etihad pulled the plug on its failed alitalia experiment. that left alitalia — officially known here as the worst airline ever — without a lifeline as it hemorrhaged what precious cash it had left. the airline was living on borrowed time with cash … cf on nov 5, 2018 nov 6, 2018 3 links i love: alitalia rescue plan #85,083, united takes on cheaters, air india hits wall and keeps flying 3 links i love: alitalia rescue plan #85,083, united takes on cheaters, air india hits wall and keeps flying this week’s featured link: alitalia relaunch to include italian state ownership – usa today this is excellent news for all admirers of the worst airline ever. for anyone who thought alitalia might go under or get merged into a bigger airline, fear not. the italian government is here to … cf on oct 18, 2018 oct 19, 2018 (even more) storm clouds on the horizon for alitalia (even more) storm clouds on the horizon for alitalia you’ve probably been wondering when there would be a new post on alitalia. after all, the airline was supposed to have been sold by now, but alas, that hasn’t happened. instead, the process continues to drag on and on. in the meantime, how is the airline still flying? ah, well, … cf on may 2, 2018 may 3, 2018 the vultures are circling alitalia as it looks for a savior the vultures are circling alitalia as it looks for a savior the worst airline ever, alitalia, has had a busy few months. after continuing to bleed money thanks to etihad’s failed turnaround plan for the airline, alitalia went bankrupt and the italians went looking for someone — anyone — to step in to save the day, just as etihad had done … cf on jun 7, 2017 jun 8, 2017 ringing in the new year in the best way: an alitalia restructuring ringing in the new year in the best way: an alitalia restructuring happy new year, everyone! it’s that time of year where people try to change for the better. we make resolutions, try to improve ourselves, and work so that the next time the calendar changes, we’re in a better place. for some of us, that happens… but not for the worst … cf on jan 2, 2017 jan 2, 2017 you should fly alitalia you should fly alitalia sorry to shock you with the subject line, but it’s really true. ever since etihad acquired 49 percent of alitalia, it has been working on improving things at the carrier. last week, the latest information on the makeover was released, and you should think of it as etitalia, etihad … cf on jul 23, 2016 jun 8, 2015 alitalia’s turnaround plan looks very familiar alitalia’s turnaround plan looks very familiar on january 1st of this year, alitalia officially became a “new” alitalia with partial ownership by etihad. does this mean alitalia is no longer the worst airline in the world? oh please. sure, etihad was quick to bring some of its own people to work on the alitalia project, and … cf on jul 23, 2016 jan 26, 2015 now that the alitalia deal is done, etihad lays out its vision for its newest toy now that the alitalia deal is done, etihad lays out its vision for its newest toy i have some bad news. i’m afraid it might be time to shut down the blog after 8 years. at least, that was suggested to me yesterday upon learning that the alitalia ceo job is now available. clearly that’s the job i’ve always lusted after. or not. in reality, … cf on jul 23, 2016 aug 12, 2014 etihad is now the worst airline ever, thanks to the transitive property etihad is now the worst airline ever, thanks to the transitive property the long-awaited day has finally arrived. after years of begging air france/klm to give it more money, alitalia has finally shifted its glances in a different direction. the perennially-struggling airline has announced that etihad will pour in a bunch of money and own just shy of half of alitalia. … cf on jul 23, 2016 jun 30, 2014 air france/klm rejects an alitalia acquisition while the vultures circle air france/klm rejects an alitalia acquisition while the vultures circle i’ll admit that the last couple of years have been rough for me. alitalia, which i long ago dubbed the worst airline ever, has been very quiet. it was under new leadership, working on combining with airone, and it wasn’t making headlines. those were dark times, but there is … cf on jul 23, 2016 dec 3, 2013 alitalia regains its crown as losses mount alitalia regains its crown as losses mount i know you were expecting a follow up post to tuesday’s discussion about farelogix, but that’s going to have to wait. very soon after my post went live, sabre sent me a note to say that “much of what was ‘mocked up’ by farelogix is already being done today … cf on jul 23, 2016 feb 28, 2013 posts navigation page 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 nextnext footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site!