skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home / broadband / wow! internet plans wow! internet plans by freshome team on march 13, 2020 in broadband collect this idea bbernard/shutterstock about wow! wow! (also known as wide open west) offers cable, fiber and dsl internet, phone and television services for customers in nine states providing services to over 7 million people. you can find wow! internet in metropolitan areas like montgomery, al, chicago, il, detroit, mi, and 16+ other markets. there are wow! internet package choices with speeds ranging from 100 mbps to 1,000 mbps (1 gbps) to fit your streaming, gaming and browsing needs. wow! internet: what you need to know check out this quick-reference guide for the most important things you’ll want to know about wow! internet prices, speeds and availability. wow! products cable, fiber and dsl internet, tv and phone wow! internet speeds up to 1,000 mbps (1 gbps) wow! internet prices plans starting at $59.99/mo. wow! availability 19+ markets in 9 states contract required? contracts are required for promotional pricing *as of 03/12/2020 wow! internet packages internet 100 wow!’s internet 100 offers speeds up to 100 mbps which is ideal for singles, small families or households of one to two people. with this plan, you can use a few devices at once, such as a computer and some cell phones, and you can enjoy light streaming and casual web browsing. you’ll get a discount if you sign up for autopay, and installation is free if you order the service online. internet 200 internet 200 offers speeds up to 200 mbps. this option is a good fit for small- or medium-sized households of two to three people where several devices may be connected at the same time. it’s good for multiple high-definition streams and some casual online gaming. you’ll also save money each month you’re enrolled in autopay. installation costs are waived if you order your new service online. internet 500 internet 500 goes up to 500 mbps which works if you have a medium or large household of three to four people who like 4k streaming and live online gaming. it’s also a good option if you have a smart home with internet-enabled devices. as with other wow! packages, you can get a discount when you sign up for autopay and free installation for ordering online. internet 1000 this is wow’s premier gigabit package, with speed up to 1,000 mbps (1 gbps). internet 1000 is intended for large households of five or more people or homes where there will be lots of hd streaming, online gaming, video conferencing and other extensive internet use. order online for free installation and sign up for autopay to and save money. with this package, you also get free whole-home wifi. wow! features free installation: installation fees are waived on all packages if you sign up for service online. no data caps: browse, download and stream to your heart’s content thanks to unlimited data, available on all plans. 30-day money-back guarantee: you can try out wow!’s internet service for 30 days to see if it works for your needs. autopay discount: save $5 each month when you enroll in automatic payments. free email addresses: all internet packages come with up to five free email addresses. wow! availability some isps, including wow! internet, are only available in certain areas of the country. if you’re relocating or looking to switch providers, check the provider’s availability to be sure they service your area. wow! is available in these states: alabama florida georgia illinois indiana michigan ohio south carolina tennessee pros & cons of wow! advantages of wow! installation costs are waived if you order your service online save $5 every month if you enroll in automatic payments no data caps, no matter which internet package you choose paperless billing will save you $2 per month promotional rates require a two-year contract, but if you pay full price for service, you won’t be locked into any contracts disadvantages of wow! service is limited to only nine states wow!’s fastest packages, internet 500 and internet 1000, are not available in all areas promotional pricing for new users comes with a two-year contract setting up wow! whether you’re moving into a new home or simply switching providers, you also need to factor in how the service will be installed. wow! offers free installation on all its internet packages if you order your service online. to get wow! internet service, you’ll need a modem which you can rent with built-in wifi from the company for $10 per month, or supply your own compatible unit at no cost. if you’d like to purchase your own to save on the monthly rental cost, review wow!’s compatibility requirements. purchasing a modem can cost as little as $46.99 and will pay for itself in less than half a year. wow! does not offer self-setup, so either way, a technician will need to come to your home to set up service. frequently asked questions how much is wow! internet? prices start at $59.99 per month for the internet 100 plan. the company’s fastest package, internet 1000, costs $99.99 per month. is wow! internet available where i live? wow! internet service is available across 19 markets in nine states. you can see if service is available for your specific address by clicking any button that says “customize order” or “check availability.” what does wow! stand for? wow! is an acronym for the company’s full name, wide open west. does wow! offer any discounts? wow! offers a $5 per month discount when you enroll in automatic payments. you can also get promotional monthly prices when you sign up for a two-year contract. does wow! have contracts? they only lock you into a two-year contract when you’re a new subscriber signing up with promotional pricing. if you opt to forgo promotional pricing and pay full price, you won’t be locked into a contract. does wow! offer bundles? yes, you can opt for bundles that include tv, phone and internet. also read broadband best high-speed internet providers of 2020 broadband what is google fiber? popular stuff give your brick fireplace a facelift - reader story don't stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus bedroom windows buying guide heat pump troubleshooting and repair bedroom windows buying guide popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss