skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download wp extended search by 5um17 details reviews installation support development description control wordpress default search to search in post meta, categories, tags or custom taxonomies via admin settings. admin can select meta keys to search in, also can control the default behavior of search in post title or post content. you can include or exclude post types to appear in search results. features search in selected meta keys search in selected in-built or custom taxonomies search in post author name include or exclude any public post type control whether to search in title or content or excerpt or all exclude old content from search results (older than admin specified date) customize the number of posts to display on search results page customize sql relation (and/or) between search terms customize order of search results control whether to match search query exactly or partially translation ready compatible with wpml links complete documentation github repository screenshots wp extented search settings page installation install wp extended search from the ‘plugins’ section in your dashboard (plugins > add new > search for ‘wp extended search’). or download wp extended search and upload it to your webserver via your ftp application. the wordpress codex contains instructions on how to do this here. activate the plugin and navigate to (settings > extended search) to choose your desired search settings. faq do you have any question? please use plugin support forum reviews wonderful plugin felxb march 11, 2020 thanks perfect! eder tuffic february 19, 2020 exactly what i needed, showing results from the tags. great plugin, congratulations on the excellent work! works great with custom post types and taxonomies vicky january 28, 2020 with this plugin i could also include my custom post types and taxonomies in the search. it is light weight, no bugs, no errors, just perfect. so thankful!! i was looking for it! tester2018 january 22, 2020 i love the simplicity of wp extended search settings! great extended search plugin guido october 25, 2019 i was looking for another plugin (to replace the abandoned search everything plugin), so i can extend the search feature at 2 different websites. 1) the search results of the native search widget can also include files from the media library. 2) works flawless with the product search widget of woocommerce. it can now also list search results by value of a custom product field. great lightweight plugin! guido useful plugin for advance search chinimandi may 30, 2019 useful plugin for advance search. read all 33 reviews contributors & developers “wp extended search” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors sumit singh “wp extended search” has been translated into 3 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “wp extended search” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.3 – 2019-10-21 fixed media search issue fixed conflict with search when adding new menu item in backend added setting link in plugin action links added feature to modify search results order added feature to match search query exactly or partially 1.2 – 2018-08-17 fixed bbpress forum posts dissappear fixed issue with ajax calls added feature to control search in post excerpt added compatibility with wpml added new filter wp_es_terms_relation_type updated wpes_posts_search filter. now you can access $wp_query object as a second argument 1.1.2 – 2016-06-06 fixed media library search is not working when plugin is active. thanks @gazettco fixed escaping issue in sql query. thanks again @brurez dropped support of wp version older than 4.0 1.1.1 – 2016-01-26 added feature to support ajax calls fixed text domain issue fixed suppress_filters issue. thanks @brurez 1.1 – 2015-06-21 added feature to search in post author name added feature to customize number of posts per search results page added feature to control sql query relation between search terms added new filters in settings wpes_meta_keys, wpes_tax and wpes_post_types 1.0.2 – 2015-01-11 added support for post_type parameter in url exclude old content from search results 1.0.1 – 2014-10-03 fixed taxonomy table join issue added new filters wpes_meta_keys_query, wpes_tax_args, wpes_post_types_args, wpes_enabled, wpes_posts_search internationalized plugin. 1.0 – 2014-09-14 first release meta version: 1.3 last updated: 3 months ago active installations: 10,000+ wordpress version: 4.0 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 languages: see all 4 close arabic, chinese (taiwan), dutch, and english (us). translate into your language tags: advance searchcategory searchpostmetasearchtaxonomy advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 33 4 stars 0 3 stars 0 2 stars 1 1 star 0 contributors sumit singh support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 4 view support forum about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.