products tasty recipes tasty links tasty pins learn blog plugin updates support log in handcrafted wordpress plugins for food blogs featuring a powerful recipe plugin for wordpress blogs everything you need to publish beautiful, seo-solid recipes on your wordpress blog. learn more a simple image optimization plugin for wordpress you no longer have to choose between seo, pinterest, & screen readers. learn more autolink keywords to maximize affiliate revenue automagically create links for specific keywords across your blog with just a few clicks. learn more why choose wp tasty? plugins used by top bloggers wp tasty plugins are up and running on high traffic sites around the internet. you’re joining a group of smart and savvy bloggers who power their blogs with our code. unlimited support got questions? we’ve got answers. wp tasty customers get unlimited support to solve whatever issues or questions they might run into. we’re here for you! 15-day money-back guarantee choosing a new plugin can be stressful. if you try it and decide it’s not for you within 15 days, you’ll get your money back. just another way we can support you in your business. active development we love what our plugins have to offer, but we’re just getting started. we make sure to stay up-to-date with new trends, add important new features, and continue to support you in your food-based business. our customers love us our customers have plenty of nice things to say about wp tasty plugins and support. read some testimonials here. built by a team you trust wp tasty plugins are built and supported by the folks behind food blogger pro, nutrifox, and pinch of yum. with our track record, you know we'll be there for you. "the level of support you've given goes far above and beyond what i'd expect anyone to offer. you have always answered so promptly and kindly, and you've saved me so much time, frustration, and money. really, i just can't thank you enough!" morgan eisenberg / host the toast i highly recommend wp tasty products. i have all three plus nutrifox. they are easy to use and for a new food blogger like myself they are also extremely helpful. tasty pins helps me to ensure i have all the necessary information i need. tasty links saves me so much time. i just add the link one time and it automatically applies the link when i use the keyword. i also love tasty recipes. it looks so professional, it has everything i need. i did purchase nutrifox and i can just grab my code and add it directly to my tasty recipes. i can not say enough about these products, they are amazing. patricia saunders thyme to change wp tasty is great at acting on customer feedback; they invite users to contribute and vote on functionality you want to see added in the future. something i have suggested has already been assigned a high priority position in their development queue! rachael gunn champagne on arrival we have been using wp tasty plugins for about 1 month now, and we are not looking back. the plugins are so easy to use. plus, wp tasty provides amazing customer support. the code behind the plugins is rock solid and is going to help propel our seo both on google and pinterest. kaitlynn fenley cultured guru: enrich your ecosystem the customer service is top-notch as every time i send a query, i get an almost instantaneous reply. jade macrury live a blissful life when i had a question, ann from your support team was right there with the answer. top-notch customer service. susan ramirez sueseaqpi the wp tasty team provides excellent customer service, and i always receive quick responses and solutions to my queries. i was also super impressed to find that they are continually requesting ideas and feedback from their customers in order that they can improve the plugin with additional useful features in the future! cara baker caradise read more publish beautiful recipes with solid seo learn more optimize your images for seo and pinterest learn more wp tasty about affiliate contact products tasty recipes tasty pins tasty links support plugin support wp tasty faqs plugin updates learn blog recipe seo social media stay in the loop stay up-to-date on the latest in seo, pinterest, and affiliate marketing for bloggers! © 2020 wp tasty. all rights reserved. terms privacy