wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » comment policy comment policy wpbeginner is a serious publication of all things wordpress related. we are a resource site that provides quality tips, and tools that you need to enhance your wordpress experience. one of the ways to improve this collective resource is having interaction within the site through the use of comments. in order to assure quality, we must have a policy to fight against spam. while we appreciate each comment, if your comment does not follow our comment policy, it will be removed. continuous abuse of the policy will result in permanent ban of the ip address, domain, and the email used. faq how to get support for a problem? – if you have a general question directly regarding the tip, hack, or the tutorial that we posted, please post a comment in the post. if your question is specific regarding your site then you should use our contact form. comment area is not the best place to ask a question that is not related to the post. you should ask the question using our contact form, or use a suggestion page to suggest a tutorial that you would like to see. if your comment contains personal information, or have a personal question specific to the site, we will delete your comment and use your email to contact you regarding the question. read: how to properly ask for wordpress support and get it what to do if your comment does not appear – if you leave a comment on this blog and it does not appear in a reasonable time period (1 business day), and you know that it does not violate these comment policies, please contact us using the contact form. policy comment name – we do not allow keywords stuffed in the name field. you must use your name or nick name for commenting. comments using keywords such as “web design company” or similar will be flagged as spam and deleted. valid email – email addresses are required for commenting, and they are not published on the blog, nor shared. email addresses that look like spam will be flagged as spam. language and manners – this blog is written in english, so leave your comments in english. wpbeginner is a “family friendly site” therefore any comment that includes offensive or inappropriate language, and/or considered rude by our editorial staff will be edited or deleted. this is a friendly community, so play it nice. add value – a comment which does not add to the conversation, runs of on an inappropriate tangent, or kills the conversation may be edited, moved, or deleted. all spam comments will be deleted because they do not add value to the site. limit links – we love resources as they can be really helpful sometimes, but in order to prevent spam and assure quality, we must limit links on the comments. do not add more than two links in the comment. if you do so, your comment will be added for further review. do not sign your comments with a backlink to your site. they will be removed. no personal attack comments permitted – in the interest of fair play, no personal attacks are permitted in this blog’s comments. you may question or argue the content, but not attack the blogger, nor any other commenters. failure to respect fellow participants on this blog could result in removal and blocked access. all rights reserved – wpbeginner editorial staff reserves the right to edit, delete, move, or mark as spam any and all comments. we also have the right to block access to any one or group from commenting or from the entire blog. hold harmless – all comments within wpbeginner are the responsibility of the commenter, not the editorial staff of wpbeginner. by submitting a comment on our blog, you agree that the comment content is your own, and you agree to hold wpbeginner, all subsidiaries of wpbeginner, and all representatives of wpbeginner harmless from any and all repercussions, damages, or liability. if you have any questions regarding the policy, you may contact wpbeginner staff by using our contact form. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.