wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » wpbeginner’s blueprint wpbeginner’s blueprint we are often asked for recommendations on best wordpress plugins and services. people particularly want to know about the plugins and tools that we use to run the wpbeginner website. as a result, we have decided to create the wpbeginner blueprint which gives you behind the scenes look at all the tools, plugins, and services that we use here at wpbeginner. blog platform self-hosted wordpress as you can guess, our website is powered by the best publishing platform on the web, wordpress.org. it’s important that you know the difference between wordpress.com vs wordpress.org and choose the right platform for your needs. while there are many blogging platforms out there, we always recommend using wordpress because of the freedom and flexibility you have to customize your website. recommended reading: – comparison of the top blogging platforms – why is wordpress free? – 6 reasons why you should use wordpress? wordpress web hosting web hosting is your website’s house on the internet. every website needs web hosting, and each website has different needs. at wpbeginner, we use siteground enterprise hosting version. siteground hosts millions of websites, and they are one of the most popular hosting companies in the industry. with 1-click wordpress install, 99.9% uptime, and 24/7 support, it’s a smart choice for every growing business. (see our siteground review). we understand there are thousands of web hosting providers out there. that’s why we have a step by step guide on how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your site. website design / theme wpbeginner uses a custom designed wordpress theme built specifically for our website. unfortunately this design is not available for download or sale. we built our custom theme on top of the genesis framework. see our genesis framework review. if you are looking for high-quality wordpress templates, check out these companies: studiopress themify elegant themes astra theme need help choosing a wordpress theme? see our article on 9 things you should consider when selecting a wordpress theme. security vaultpress (jetpack backups) – we use vaultpress to create automatic backups. automatic backups are your first defense against any security threats. here’s our step by step guide to setup vaultpress automated backups. you may also want to see our comparison of the best wordpress backup plugins. sucuri – sucuri offers web monitoring and malware cleanup service. it helps us enhance our wordpress security and actively block cyber attacks. see how sucuri helped us block 450,000 wordpress attacks in 3 months login lockdown – we use login lockdown plugin to prevent brute-force login attacks. it locks user’s ip address after an x number of failed attempts. – see our login lockdown review. performance w3 total cache – we use w3 total cache to integrate maxcdn, do page caching and browser caching to improve site speed. see our w3 total cache review. maxcdn – we use a content delivery network, maxcdn, to speed up our site and reduce server load. we use it to serve static content (images, css, javascript). see our maxcdn review. classic smilies – we use classic smilies to turn off all emoji functionality in wordpress and replace it with older smilies from previous versions of wordpress. marketing yoast seo – we use yoast seo to improve our on-page seo by adding title tags, xml sitemaps, indexation rules and more. see our yoast seo review. optinmonster – optinmonster is the best lead generation tool for wordpress. we use it to get more email subscribers. see our optinmonster review. wpforms – wpbeginner uses wpforms to power all contact forms and form based lead generations (including email opt-ins and payment orders). see our wpforms review. mailchimp – mailchimp allows us to design, send, and track beautiful email newsletters to our readers. every site owner should build an email list. check out our mailchimp review. monsterinsights – monsterinsights allow us to connect to google analytics for free. it shows us who visits our website, where they come from, and how they interact with our content. rafflepress – rafflepress helps us run viral giveaways and contests to increase our website traffic, social media followers, and email subscribers. we use the pro version, but they also have a free rafflepress version available as well. frame buster – we use frame buster to stop content pirates from placing their calls-to-action, ads, affiliate links on top of our content. see our frame buster for wordpress review. monetization thirstyaffiliates – we use thirstyaffiliates to efficiently manage all of our affiliate links. it allows us to cloak links, automatically replace keywords, and more. see our thirstyaffiliates review. wp-bitly – we use wp-bitly plugin to automatically generate short urls for our posts that look like http://wpbeg.in/. see our wp-bitly review. styling breadcrumb navxt – we use breadcrumb navxt to add breadcrumb navigation showing the visitor’s path to their current location. see our breadcrumb navxt review. syntax highlighter – we use syntax highlighter evolved plugin to share code snippets in our posts. it is by far the best solution in our opinion. see our syntax highlighter review. compact archives – we use compact archives plugin to make our archives page prettier. it helps us compress the output of month/year archive. see our compact archives review. comments akismet – we use akismet to combat comment spam. akismet lets us focus on writing quality content rather than moderating spam comments. see our akismet review. subscribe to comments reloaded – we use it to allow our users to subscribe to comments. this way users get notification email when there is a new comment on the post. see our subscribe to comments reloaded review no self pings – we use it to stop wordpress from sending ping back notifications when linking to our own posts. see our no self ping review. behind the scenes there are several tools, plugins, and custom code snippets that we use at wpbeginner. here is the list of our behind the scene plugins, code snippets, etc. edit flow – we use edit flow to manage our editorial workflow. see our edit flow review. members – this plugin allows us to add new roles and limit content permissions by users. we use it specifically for role management in wpbeginner. see our expert comparison of 5 best wordpress membership plugins. advanced custom fields we use advanced custom fields to add custom fields into wordpress posts and custom post types. post types order – by default, you can order your posts by id, author, title, date etc. but there is no easy way to use a custom order. this plugin lets us do that with an easy drag-drop interface. see our post types order review. simple page ordering – this plugin works the same as the one mentioned above, it allows us to set custom ordering but for pages. see our simple page ordering review excerpts for pages – we use custom code snippet to display excerpts for pages in wordpress. random post redirect – this custom code snippet allows us to redirect users to a random post in wordpress if they add /random/ at the end of the url. title and nofollow for links – we use it to add a title and nofollow fields to insert link popup in wordpress. see our title and nofollow for links review. restore image title – we use it to add title attribute to the images we add into wordpress posts. see our restore image title review. wp mail smtp – we use it to make sure our wordpress emails are getting delivered to the inbox. to learn more, see how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. that’s all for now. we will update this page when we start using some new plugin or tool on wpbeginner. if you found our blueprint helpful, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.