wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » wpbeginner disclaimer wpbeginner disclaimer wpbeginner is one of the oldest and largest free wordpress resource site for beginners. a common question we often get asked is why do you offer everything for free? and it’s usually followed up with how do you make money? so we’re creating this page to answer how is wpbeginner funded, and why it matters to you! why is wpbeginner free? as a beginner or small business, you often don’t have a large budget to spend on tools and training. however those two things are crucial for success. we started wpbeginner in 2009 with a single goal: create wordpress tutorials that are easy to understand and most importantly are 100% free. our goal is to help small businesses compete with the big guys. simply put, we created wpbeginner to offer users what we wish we had when we first started out. how is wpbeginner funded? we have always believed in being honest and transparent with our audience. in our opinion, that’s the only way to build a community. running a popular website like wpbeginner that helps millions of users every month requires significant investment. both on the server infrastructure part as well as on the content creation part. our team creates and maintains thousands of free written wordpress tutorials and hundreds of free videos tutorials. so yes, we have to make money otherwise we would have to shut the site down. below are two primary sources that fund wpbeginner. our products over the years, we have created several premium wordpress plugins to help you improve your website and grow your business. when you purchase any of our premium wordpress plugins, it helps us fund wpbeginner. we really appreciate everyone in the wpbeginner community who use and support our plugins. thank you. referral fees we earn referral fees when you buy services from companies that we recommend. we only recommend products that we believe will add value to our readers. we thorougly test and use all products that we recommend. all opinions are our own, and we do not accept payments for positive reviews. this monetization method is called affiliate marketing. the biggest brands on the internet offer affiliate programs such as amazon, ebay, google, etc. many of your favorite sites use affiliate marketing to pay the bills. the only difference is that not everyone tell their users how they make money. sometimes you will see banner ads like these: other times, you will see a special link unique to each website that track referrals such as: https://www.wpbeginner.com/refer/hostgator/ http://www.csshero.org/?rid=5242 when you click on these link, you are tagged with a special cookie to track the referral. if you end up buying the product, then they pay us a referral fee. the referral fees vary for each product. for a wordpress book that you may buy at amazon, we might earn $1. for a premium wordpress theme, we might earn $10. question #1 – will it cost me more money? no, absolutely not. in most cases, our deals will actually save you money. because wpbeginner is an authority website, a lot of vendors offer our readers exclusive discounts. for example, if you were to purchase managed wordpress hosting from wpengine, you would normally pay $29 per month. however if you purchase it by using our referral link, you will get 50% off for the first 3 months. please check out our deals section to find more deals. question #2 – do you see my personal details? nope. we don’t see any personal information i.e name, email, address, credit card, etc. the only thing we see is that an anonymous user made a purchase on date/time and which product they bought. how can you help us? sites like wpbeginner takes a lot of investment to operate. enough to buy a nice house in many parts of the usa. we have a dedicated team of paid programmers, writers, and editors. that’s why we need your help. below are few ways you can help us: purchase our premium wordpress plugins. if you’re thinking of buying a product, then please buy it using a wpbeginner referral link. if you’re using a product that we recommend, then please leave your review in the comments to help others. spread the word by sharing wpbeginner tutorials with your friends and family on twitter, facebook, linkedin, etc. why should you help us? there are several so-called “experts” selling wordpress training for hundreds of dollars – all of which you can find for free here at wpbeginner. there are also tons of bloggers that write fake positive reviews without ever testing the product / service only because they want to make a quick referral fee. at wpbeginner, we are a people first company. we treat our team like family, and our readers best interest is our #1 priority. all our wordpress tutorials are free because our goal at wpbeginner is to level the playing field for small businesses, so they can grow and compete with the big guys. if you’ve found wpbeginner to be helpful, then we hope that you will help support us, so we can continue working towards our mission. thank you for support. syed balkhi founder of wpbeginner over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.