features pricing testimonials blog login get wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder join 3,000,000+ professionals who build smarter forms and surveys with wpforms get wpforms now watch video finally, a wordpress forms plugin that's easy and powerful wpforms is the best wordpress contact form plugin. here are the features that makes wpforms the most powerful and user-friendly wordpress form builder in the market. drag & drop form builder easily create an amazing form in just a few minutes without writing any code. form templates start with pre-built form templates to save even more time. responsive mobile friendly wpforms is 100% responsive meaning it works on mobile, tablets & desktop. smart conditional logic easily create high performance forms with our smart conditional logic. instant notifications respond to leads quickly with our instant form notification feature for your team. entry management view all your leads in one place to streamline your workflow. payments made easy easily collect payments, donations, and online orders without hiring a developer. marketing & subscriptions create subscription forms and connect it with your email marketing service. easy to embed easily embed your forms in blog posts, pages, sidebar widgets, footer, etc. spam protection our smart captcha and honeypot automatically prevent spam submissions. get wpforms now see all features wpforms is by far the easiest form plugin to use. my clients love it - it’s one of the few plugins they can use without any training. as a developer i appreciate how fast, modern, clean and extensible it is. bill erickson - erickson web consulting llc as a business owner, time is my most valuable asset. wpforms allow me to create smart online forms with just a few clicks. with their pre-built form templates and the drag & drop builder, i can create a new form that works in less than 2 minutes without writing a single line of code. well worth the investment. david henzel - maxcdn wpforms brings innovation to the wordpress forms space by leveraging templates - making form creation fast, easy and perfect for everyone. chris lema - chrislema.com top 4 reasons why people love wpforms wpforms is the perfect wordpress form solution for you. here's why over 3,000,000+ smart business owners, designers, and developers love wpforms, and you will too! build online forms in minutes, not hours building forms in wordpress can be hard. wpforms makes it easy. our easy drag & drop wordpress form builder allows you to create contact forms, online surveys, donation forms, order forms and other wordpress forms in just a few minutes without writing any code. smarter workflows that make complex forms easy while our wordpress form builder is very easy to use, we created smart workflows to save you even more time. wpforms comes with pre-built wordpress form templates that can be easily customized, so you don't ever have to start from scratch unless you want to. all the fields & features that you need to succeed from radio buttons to file uploads to multi-page forms, we have all the fields you need. easily integrate your wordpress forms with an email marketing service or collect payments for bookings and orders. wpforms allows you to do it all. easy to customize and adapt to your needs completely customize your wordpress forms with section dividers, html blocks, and custom css. wpforms also comes with tons of hooks and filters for developers to extend and create custom functionality. start building smarter wordpress forms create and publish forms in minutes... what are you waiting for? get wpforms now wpforms blog & resources 12 wordpress security tips and tricks for your online forms wpforms turns 4 years old — sale, prizes + what’s new & what’s next 8 best stripe payment plugins for wordpress in 2020 frequently asked questions and resources do you have a question about wpforms? see the list below for our most frequently asked questions. if your question is not listed here, then please contact us. who should use wpforms? wpforms is perfect for business owners, bloggers, designers, developers, photographers, and basically everyone else. if you want to create a custom wordpress form, then you need to use wpforms. what’s required to use wpforms? wpforms is a wordpress plugin. in order to use wpforms, you must have a self-hosted wordpress site. that's all. do i need coding skills to use wpforms? absolutely not. you can create and manage forms without any coding knowledge. wpforms is the most beginner friendly contact form solution in the market. will wpforms slow down my website? absolutely not. wpforms is carefully built with performance in mind. we have developed everything with best practices and modern standards to ensure things run smooth and fast. is wpforms translation ready? yes, wpforms has full translation and localization support via the wpforms textdomain. all .mo and .po translation files should go into the languages folder in the base of the plugin. the same is true for every wpforms addon as well. does wpforms work on non-wordpress sites? no. wpforms is a wordpress forms plugin, so it will not work on sites that do not use wordpress. additionally, wpforms is not compatible with the wordpress.com platform. you must be using a self-hosted version of wordpress to utilize wpforms. can i use wpforms on client sites? yes, you can use wpforms on client sites in two ways. either you can purchase the pro/agency license or purchase an appropriate license for each client sites (yes you can refer them and earn 20% commission through our affiliate program). do you have an affiliate program? yes we certainly do. we would love to have you as a partner. visit our affiliates page to learn more about becoming an wpforms affiliate. new! how to create a multi-step form in wordpress (without code) new! how to create a file upload form in wordpress (step by step) how to create a wordpress user registration form how to create a simple order form in wordpress [+ free template] how to create service agreements in wordpress (with digital signatures) how to allow users to submit blog posts on your wordpress site wordpress form builder we were tired of the bloated and buggy wordpress form builder plugins.we believe that you shouldn’t have to hire a developer to create a wordpress contact form. that’s why we built wpforms, a drag & drop wordpress form builder that's both easy and powerful.with our online form builder workflow, you can create responsive wordpress forms in 5 minutes or less.unlike other wordpress form plugins, our wordpress form builder saves your entries in your website database, so you have always have access to your data.our wordpress form builder also offers conditional logic, payment integration, and other advanced features that you would expect from the leading wordpress form builder plugin. wordpress form plugin wpforms is consistently voted the best wordpress form plugin by industry authorities such as wpbeginner, elegantthemes, studiopress, astra theme, oceanwp, and themeisle.unlike other wordpress form plugins, wpforms comes with a 100% drag & drop wordpress form builder, so you can easily create any type of wordpress forms ranging from simple wordpress contact form to more advanced wordpress user registration forms, payment forms, email subscription forms, surveys, polls, and more.all entries are stored in your wordpress form database inside your website, so you are always in full control of your data.wpforms wordpress forms plugin is now used on over 2 million websites and has over 4000 five star ratings on wordpress.org. you can see what users are saying about wpforms by reading all wpforms reviews.you can use our wordpress form tutorial to create your online form in minutes! wordpress contact form there are thousands of free wordpress contact form plugins out there. the problem with most wordpress form plugins is that they are either too limited or extremely complicated to use.with wpforms lite, we created the most beginner friendly wordpress contact form plugin. you can start with our built-in wordpress contact form template or create an entirely custom wordpress form.wordpress contact forms created with wpforms are 100% mobile responsive meaning your contact forms will always look great on all devices including desktop, mobile phones, tablets, and laptop computers.you can easily embed our wordpress contact form widget inside your post, pages, or in a sidebar widget (without writing any code). 47+ best wordpress plugins for your website [most are free] 39 wpforms power hacks to grow your business online 10 best drag and drop wordpress page builders (compared) 7 best managed wordpress hosting for 2020 (compared) 101 unbelievable online form statistics & facts for 2020 7 best wordpress lms plugins (with free options) start building smarter wordpress forms create and publish forms minutes... what are you waiting for? get wpforms now company about us careers testimonials form templates contact press affiliates blog top features online form builder conditional logic conversational forms mailchimp forms aweber forms file uploads stripe forms post submissions signature forms entry management form notifications form landing pages spam protection multi-page forms surveys and polls user registration paypal forms form abandonment our brands wp mail smtp optinmonster monsterinsights isitwp seedprod rafflepress connect with us helpful links support documentation plans & pricing wordpress hosting start a blog make a website wpbeginner wordpress forms for nonprofits copyright © 2016-2020 wpforms, llc. wpforms is a trademark of wpforms, llc. terms of service privacy policy sitemap wpforms coupon nps is a registered trademark, and net promoter score and net promoter system are service marks, of bain & company, inc., satmetrix systems, inc. and fred reichheld.