wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpforms - wordpress contact form plugin rating: compatible up to: wordpress 5.3.2 get wpforms wpforms is the most beginner friendly wordpress contact form plugin. the drag & drop online form builder makes it easy for you to create a beautiful contact form, email subscription form, payment form, and other type of online forms with just a few clicks. we created wpforms with a ux first approach making sure that it is extremely easy to use for our non tech savvy users. at the same time, it has all the features you will need to create a powerful and flexible form for your site. subscribe to wpbeginner wpforms features: 100% responsive – mobile friendly online form builder – our powerful drag & drop online form builder allows you to easily create wordpress contact forms and other online forms in just a few minutes without writing any code. form templates – use our pre-built form templates to save time. never start from scratch again. spam protection – wpforms utilizes smart captcha and honeypot method to stop spam form submissions. instant form notification – quickly respond to incoming inquiries with our instant form notification system. smart form confirmation – show a custom success message, or redirect users to a custom thank you page. file uploads – collect files and media through your online forms with file uploads. multi-page forms – split long forms into multiple pages to improve user experience. mailchimp forms – create mailchimp newsletter signup forms in wordpress to grow your email list. aweber forms – create aweber newsletter signup forms in wordpress to grow your email list. paypal payment forms – create paypal forms to easily collect payments, donations, and online orders. smart conditional logic – show or hide fields and form sections based on user behavior. more features coming soon! ready to build your next online form? wpforms takes only a few minutes to setup, and there is a risk-free 14 day money-back guarantee. get wpforms now wpbeginner users get a special 50% off if you use the wpforms coupon –> save50. rating: compatibile up to: wordpress 5.3.2 get wpforms testimonials wpforms is by far the easiest form plugin to use. my clients love it – it’s one of the few plugins they can use without any training. as a developer i appreciate how fast, modern, clean and extensible it is. bill erickson as a business owner, time is my most valuable asset. wpforms allow me to create smart online forms with just a few clicks. with their pre-built form templates and the drag & drop builder, i can create a new form that works in less than 2 minutes without writing a single line of code. well worth the investment. david henzel featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.