features elasticsearch solr algolia hosting plugins & themes pricing showcase blog more forums documentation videos add-ons knowledge base guides my account releases become an affiliate menu features elasticsearch solr algolia hosting plugins & themes pricing showcase blog more forums documentation videos add-ons knowledge base guides my account releases become an affiliate search close looking for the perfect woocommerce search without breaking the bank? unfortunately, the best search solutions are hosted and can cost thousands a month. wpsolr is different from everything you know: it is a self-hosted plugin it scales up to millions of products it is infinitely configurable it is cheap as a plugin play video yes, i want to test my self-hosted unbreakable woocommerce search we are mentioned by “how to configure elasticsearch on wordpress on cloudways” “guide to wordpress site search plugins” “15 best search plugins for wordpress to make the most out of search 2020” “turbocharge your wordpress search using solr” “10+ meilleurs plugins de recherche pour wordpress” “the top nine plugins for improving the default wordpress search functionality (2020)” “15 plugins to improve wordpress search” 10x times faster? this is a big claim. but who are we? we are developers on the shoulders of giants: wordpress, solr, elasticsearch. the full (complicated) history of our plugin in 6 steps: 1. years ago, we managed a classified ads website with 50 million ads. 4. our solr was hosted at that time, but was not satisfying. we therefore built our own solr hosting service, that other users could also hire. 2. we got stuck with the standard search technology provided by sql. 5. we then built a small wordpress plugin to ease wordpress users that wanted to use our solr hosting service. wpsolr was born! 3. we developed our own plugin to replace sql by solr. just to be able to reach a great and fast search. which we achieved. 6. we extended wpsolr to elasticsearch, then to algolia. and also developed extensions for every possible major plugins and themes. showcase: huge sites powered by us mylisting directory search with 1 million listings woocommerce search with 500,000 products bbpress forum search with 3 millions discussions e-commerce search with 1,5 millions products already 1000 users have boosted their search with our plugin testimonials from wordpress.org (when we used to have a free plugin) "great plugin! have used it to index over 1 million data in a custom wp application and the results have been fantastic. the support too, even though it is free, is very responsive and if there is a feature request it is for sure added in next releases of the plugin.“ overall, kudos to your team for bringing out such a plugin and making solr integration with wp such a breeze!" @amathur "i experience wpsolr as a highly valuable search plugin. i have a website with over 6000 products and this plugin enables my customer to execute a fast and proper search. the support team of wpsolr even helped me setup a cloud server support me when installing their plugin. all by all very satisfied about this plugin, excellent work! p.s. i never write reviews unless i am really impressed." @jorisadriaans "this plugin make working with solr very easy. the plugin is often updated, and the plugin author is excellent with support and new features" @sasdts "just wanted to say thanks for such an awesome plugin. it's a well written plugin and configurable. using the actions and filters i'm able to add more fields to filter on and more fields to index without hacking the core of the plugin. read the documentation for the plugin on their site." @flacoman91 "outstanding plugin. been using wordpress for a long time now, but never commented on any plugin. i created a account wordpress.org just to give this plugin a 5 star review. not just because the plugin works as advertised, but also because of the outstanding support given by the author. great job." @wietzej89 "flexible, well thinked and designed. great plugin implementation. great maintainance. i do not know if it’s clear enough: great!" @vcapoccia how is wpsolr different from other plugins or saas hosted search? you don't have to trade off quality for quantity! our search technology brings great results, at any scale. multi-language stemming, stopwords, synonyms, fuzzy. all the features of a great search that works with millions of posts, products, listings, or topics. secure keep your data in place install elasticsearch, solr, or redisearch on your secured and private server. free consultation search anything no stone unturned every bit of information in your system can be indexed and searched. post types, custom fields, taxonomies, pdf files, .docx files ... free consultation no admin simple we've done the hard work. our plugin connects seamlessly to the most powerful search engines ever. no dirty hands. free consultation unlock all your plugins more than 20 add-ons wordpress greatness comes from its plugins. be assured your search will work great with yours: woocommerce, bbpress, wpml, listify, jobify, mylisting and many more. free consultation grow in confidence unbreakable a black friday surge can hurt your woocommerce sells. our technology is scalable virtually to any stress levels, so you don’t need to worry. free consultation human support no horrid bots to answer plain human expertise answering quickly and swiftly. free consultation cartochrome had disastrous conversions and seo due to its slow 1 million listings search now, displaying one million search results is more than 10x times faster. stephen umunna - ceo, cartochrome linkedin facebook twitter www.cartochrome.com 1 million listings search play video watch our tutorial above on how to setup wpsolr with elasticsearch and the mylisting theme, exactly as cartochrome did. cartochrome's search went down from 60 to 3 seconds. we started to solve a simple problem: searching 50 million documents with solr. we liked the end result so much, we built a universal search plugin for wordpress with solr, elasticsearch, algolia, and redisearch. it was quite a journey! we are here to support you we are proud of our support: always fast and human. more than 500 answers already read other user answers. your problem probably has already been solved. the human touch we do not believe in bots for support. login privacy policy terms and conditions © 2020 wpsolr.com. all rights reserved. more than a million pages ! cartochrome has been transformed because of the scalability wpsolr has made it. their customer service is amicable. right now, cartochrome has more than a million pages and we are working on scaling it more thanks to wpsolr. i recommend wpsolr to anyone trying to take their search website to the next level! thanks, patrice! stephen umunna founder of cartochrome.com receive our plugin, and test it for free!