skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides category: writing why aren’t you blogging, and other hard questions posted on feb 13, 2020 posted in: random musings, writing every now and then i get a well-meaning email or facebook message from a reader. i’ve noticed, they will write, and i can practically feel the gentle trepidation as they do so, that you seem to have fallen off the planet and are living the life of a hermit. and not even a *good* hermit? like, you… keep reading i have a james beard award and i think you are so great. posted on may 6, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings, site news, writing my writing pitches don’t get accepted often. sometimes an editor will contact me directly, and i’ll send them a piece, and if it gets published, it may do quite well (my piece on bullying for the washington post was an example of that), but it rarely gets to that point. more often than not, i’ll… keep reading lost and founder. posted on jul 19, 2018 posted in: loving the entrepreneur, random musings, writing my beloved wrote a book. how it came to be was radically different from my own path. when i wrote a book, it became a job, it became the thing i was doing because on a daily basis, there’s not that much else that is asked of me. but there are always things asked of… keep reading scenes from a bookstore posted on jun 22, 2018 posted in: loving the entrepreneur, random musings, writing “why do they have so many copies of my book? is that a bad sign? does that mean no one’s buying it?” “no. your book has been out for a year, and they have a lot of copies. that’s a good sign. that means they keep it in stock.” “are you sure? because doesn’t it… keep reading 782 words about writer’s block posted on jun 21, 2018 posted in: personal essay, random musings, writing i don’t know what writer’s block looks like for other people. i’ve never discussed it with my friends who write professionally, perhaps because it seems like a silly, self-indulgent think to talk about. “hello, friends who also make a living making sentences. do you know how sometimes the sentences are hard to make? how putting… keep reading two tricks to becoming a better writer posted on feb 6, 2018 posted in: advice, nothing to do with travel, somewhat useful info, writing last weekend, i briefly opened up my twitter dms and told people to message me their questions about travel or blogging, or, failing that, implored them to simply send me cat gifs. i was amazed by the response – dozens of people replied, absolutely no one took the opportunity to tell me i was a… keep reading unhelpful charts for writers posted on mar 21, 2017 posted in: infographics, nothing to do with travel, writing while i initially started this post with the aim of creating helpful charts for writers, that was soon abandoned because i don’t really know what helpful advice i have to offer about writing, other than to maybe not be sober while doing it. (and that’s not even my advice – pretty sure that hemingway came up… keep reading writing a memoir? be ready to kill your darlings. posted on sep 16, 2016 posted in: book, writing hi, friends! remember me? i’m that lady who spends all her time blogging, unless she’s distracted by something shiny, at which point she forgets to blog for weeks and weeks and weeks. (related: i just got a new necklace and it. is. shiny.) oh, and also, i’ve been working on the book. that’s kept me… keep reading about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.