skip to content skip to content menu start here blog podcast about categories ideas online business blogging self-publishing freelancing service businesses consulting coaching ecommerce amazon fba investing real estate peer-to-peer lending saving money hustle 101 productivity progress reports write for us side hustle nation welcomes amazing guest authors. in fact, some of the best-performing content on the site has come from outside contributors like you. but there are a few guidelines guest posts need to meet. rule #1: target a specific keyword (that people are actually searching for) the idea here is to make sure your work continues to earn traffic month after month from people discovering it in google. your primary keyword should get at least 1000 monthly searches, and be related to the broad topic of side hustles. you can use a premium tool like ahrefs or a free tool like google’s keyword planner to estimate this. rule #2: make it the best resource on that topic the internet has ever seen this is what google ultimately wants to put at the top of the search results. your content should be worthy of the title of “best”. if it’s not, it has little chance of cracking the top 10, which doesn’t do either of us any good. what does that mean? it means covering a topic in as much detail as needed to thoroughly answer the reader’s question. it usually means writing content that’s at least 2000 words long. here are some examples that have done well: earn $500+ this weekend: an intro to car flipping mechanical turk review: how i made $21,000 a quarter at a time how to get paid over and over again — from work you do once rule #3: format it so it’s easy to read. formatting blog posts is a pain in the butt, but super important. your post should include: text broken up with h2 subheads. these subheads should include your main keyword and related lsi keywords. links to relevant internal and external resources. relevant images or screenshots, 700 pixels wide if possible. smaller is fine, bigger is not. images need to be royalty-free (tell me where you sourced them). your author bio with preferred link(s). don’t worry about creating the shn-styled social media graphics. ready to pitch? when all that sounds good, pitch away! due to the volume of pitches we receive, please follow the instructions below. if you don’t, we’ll assume you haven’t read these guidelines and will ignore your email. compose your article in google docs or in your own wordpress dashboard and just save as a draft. run your draft through hemingway or grammarly (or both). send your pitch to editor at sidehustlenation dot com. use the subject line: “guest post pitch: [your proposed title]” link to the google doc version of your post. thanks! like that? there's more! join the 65,000 who get my best stuff via email i'll also send you my free guide: the 5 fastest ways to make more money. please enter your name. please enter a valid email address. i'm a hustler! you're in! make sure to check your email (including spam/promotions) for your free welcome gift. something went wrong. please check your entries and try again. usually hustling, occasionally social contact books write for us sponsor media terms of use | privacy | disclaimer | ccpa | do not sell my personal information © 2020 sidehustlenation.com we use cookies to to make sure you have the best experience on our website. cool?ok