welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog announcing microbachelors® programs, an innovative undergraduate-level credential that will transform the future of work and higher education published on: jan 08, 2020 by anant agarwal 2972 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post today, we are proud to announce microbachelors® programs, the first credit-backed stackable credential, marking a significant milestone in online learning. created by edx in an innovative partnership with top colleges, universities and fortune 1000 corporations, microbachelors programs deliver immediately transferable skills to meet the real-world needs of employers, while providing a pathway to a full bachelor’s degree. edx was founded on the mission to increase... read more about announcing microbachelors® programs, an innovative undergraduate-level credential that will transform the future of work and higher education happy national novel writing month! published on: nov 03, 2017 by justine goulart 6857 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learners ready your notebooks, laptops, and minds, because it’s nanowrimo – national novel writing month! let edx help you refine your writing skills through our professional education writing courses, specifically designed to help you advance your career as a novelist. everyone has a story to tell. have you thought about writing a novel, but aren’t sure where to begin? enroll in how to write a novel: writing... read more about happy national novel writing month! 5 ways to communicate effectively at work published on: jun 08, 2017 by maggie sokolik 14066 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post there are thousands of books and websites that will tell you how to format a report, write a cover letter, or design a slide presentation. but, do you know how to communicate in a way that goes beyond the standard advice? here are a few tips to put you on the path to being a thoughtful communicator on the job. consider your audience. many writers... read more about 5 ways to communicate effectively at work what online courses should i take to prepare for college? published on: jan 16, 2017 by alice randall 10194 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post refine your writing and language skills get ahead in computer science refresh your math knowledge learn how to effectively communicate train your brain to think critically if you’re headed to college later this year, it’s likely that you’ve already completed your application forms, sat entrance exams and will (hopefully!) accept an offer to attend a school. you might think you’ve done all you can to... read more about what online courses should i take to prepare for college? improve your writing skills with 6 free online courses published on: nov 08, 2016 by david mcpherson 227574 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post words are powerful. they inspire greatness and effect change. they start movements and empower leaders. they have the power to get you hired, get you promoted and, if used incorrectly, get you fired. combine the power of words with the ease and speed of email and social distribution in the digital age and one can quickly see that it has never been more important to... read more about improve your writing skills with 6 free online courses how to write an effective cv – 5 steps from the experts published on: sep 07, 2016 by keenan manning 62064 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this guest post was written by keenan manning, a project associate at the english language centre of the hong kong polytechnic university. keenan is part of the team in the upcoming english at work in asia: job applications, cvs and cover letters, and english at work in asia: preparing for a job interview on edx, starting as self-paced on 12 september 2016. you’ve seen an advertisement for... read more about how to write an effective cv – 5 steps from the experts effective job interview strategies – asking yourself the right questions published on: may 30, 2016 by adam forrester 11181 views 3 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this guest post was written by adam forrester, a lecturer at the english language centre of the hong kong polytechnic university. adam leads the team in the upcoming english at work in asia: job applications, cvs and cover letters, and english at work in asia: preparing for a job interview. you’ve got a job interview! congratulations! you know you should be preparing, but how will... read more about effective job interview strategies – asking yourself the right questions find your inner writer: new writing and composition courses published on: may 05, 2016 by david mcpherson 6812 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post do you have a story inside you just waiting to come out? do you have expertise in a subject that needs to be exposed to the world via a blog or a how-to book? is your imagination on par with j. k. rowling but you lack the tools to get your ideas onto paper? in addition to the knowledge, creativity and inspiration for your writing,... read more about find your inner writer: new writing and composition courses online courses starting in april – start learning to set yourself up for success published on: apr 03, 2016 by monil shah 6326 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post online courses are growing in popularity and changing lives. a recent survey from the pewresearch centre found that nearly 73% of adults consider themselves lifelong learners. outside of just life-long learning, nearly 63% of working adults have taken a class or received extra training to improve job skills, to get a raise or promotion or to find a new job or career. for this group of “professional... read more about online courses starting in april – start learning to set yourself up for success english courses to improve your life published on: feb 17, 2016 by monil shah 20175 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post did you know that over 840 million people speak english? from business to school to relationships, better writing and communications skills can benefit all areas of your life. improved speaking and writing skills can help you personally and professionally: advance your career: global organizations are choosing english as their common language even though chinese is the highest spoken. in fact, the harvard business review declared english as the global... read more about english courses to improve your life page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close