how it works elementary school middle & high school educator tools getting started support resources contact fr sign in contact sales xello for middle & high school prepare students for a successful future more than any other program, xello helps middle and high school students of all backgrounds, abilities, and aspirations become future ready. engage every student with a revolutionary future-readiness program built with thousands of hours of research with educators, xello puts students at the heart of their journey of self-discovery. by delivering an engaging student experience, xello helps educators achieve real results. efficiently support every student take one thing off of your already very full plate. with xello you’ll deliver personalized learning at scale, save time on administrative tasks, and keep student plans organized in a centralized spot. meet college and career readiness requirements meet your local and federal requirements for college and career readiness with an engaging program that accurately tracks student progress and completion rates. teach future-ready skills & knowledge help students build the 21st century skills to thrive. xello equips all students with the knowledge, real-world skills, and planning capabilities to navigate their future. surveys assessments that build self-knowledge students complete interactive career, personality, and learning style assessments to help them better understand their unique interests, skills, and strengths. each engaging assessment encourages reflection, helping students connect who they are with relevant career options. about me personalized student portfolios students personalize their xello experience by creating a shareable, online portfolio that showcases their interests, skills, and abilities. profiles are easily updated as students gain new experiences, reflecting who they are every step of the way. explore options vibrant career and university profiles students explore hundreds of career and college options that align with their assessment results. engaging content written at a grade 6 level, rich photography, and real-world interviews provide an authentic glimpse into their future and the critical knowledge to make informed decisions and plans create a plan interactive planning tools students translate their newfound knowledge into an actionable roadmap by piecing together their saved career and academic options to create a personalized plan. plus, with integrated course planning, they’ll have a clear path to their future goals. lessons build skills employers value with integrated lessons, students build essential skills and knowledge that can help them succeed in the real world. personalized based on their work in xello, lessons give students the chance to reflect, reassess, and build communication, problem solving, and teamwork skills to ensure smooth transitions between critical life stages want to see how xello can help your middle and high school students succeed? contact sales how it works elementary school middle & high school educator tools getting started support resources contact company about careers address1867 yonge st. suite 700 toronto, on. m4s 1y5, canada phone+1 (800) 965-8541 fax+1 (416) 463-0938 © 2020 xello privacy policy terms of use