engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login this week's best deals: sony headphones, surface pro 7 and more xiaomi's mi 10 lite offers 5g for €349 powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price latest in gear ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 20m ago view the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here 2h ago view google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks 1h ago view this week's best deals: sony headphones, surface pro 7 and more 2h ago view image credit: xiaomi's mi 10 lite offers 5g for €349 with its latest phone, xiaomi wants to make 5g accessible. igor bonifacic, @igorbonifacic 5h ago comments 33 shares share tweet share sponsored links xiaomi for the most part, taking advantage of new 5g networks has meant buying some of the most expensive phones available on the market. with its latest phone, the €349 mi 10 lite 5g, xiaomi hopes to change that. that said, even if you have no interest in buying a 5g phone yet, the mi 10 lite looks like it will be a solid midrange offering. while xiaomi didn't detail all of its specs, the company said it would feature a 6.57-inch amoled screen with an in-display fingerprint sensor and a snapdragon 765g processor powered by a 4,160mah battery. weighing in at 192 grams, it will also be one of the lighter phones xiaomi has put out recently. the mi 10 lite's quad-camera array will feature a 48-megapixel main sensor. for selfies, there's a 16-megapixel front-facing camera, and the phone will come with the company's usual assortment of software photography features. you'll be able to buy the device in three colors -- white, gray and green -- when it becomes available in europe in early may. it will come in 64gb and 128gb storage configurations, though xiaomi didn't say how much the 128gb model will cost. we also got availability information for the mi 10 and mi 10 pro. the two phones will start at €799 and €999. they'll make their way to various parts of europe starting on april 7th and 15th. in this article: gadgetry, gadgets, gear, mi 10, mi 10 lite 5g, mi 10 pro, mobile, smartphone, xiaomi all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments 33 shares share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr