skip to main content toggle navigation home services design translation development marketing consulting contact quote work websites packaging logos print other design & digital media development [ web apps - software - scripting ] consulting training ~ tutoring ~ guidance marketing complete promotional solutions web design services impactful - effective - functional from mom & pop to enterprise web design and development. get a website that functions excaclty how you want & looks great on all devices. cms or static site conceptions services.read more... marketing innovative solutions in today's marketing landscape, one must use a multifaceted strategy to achieve positive results. let us assist you in finding the most appropriate marketing & advertising options for your business. services include but are not limited to pay per click, viral marketing, link building, content creation, content distribution and more. go to page web development web apps - software - scripting maybe your cms doesn't have the module or plugin your require and you need a custom solution? or maybe you need to increase productivity through script or data automation? from mobile apps to complete desktop software solutions, we can assist you in reaching your objectives. read more... consulting training - tutoring - guidance need assistance to choose the best content management system for your business? confused by the abundant selection of solutions? let us guide you in choosing the best option for your business. we also offer training services so you or your employees can manage the day to day operations of your website. read more... translation web - localization - media are you looking to reach a wider audience on the global stage? or maybe you need to implement a comprehensive content marketing strategy? let us recommend the best options to translate, create and manage your content in order to get you the best results possible tailored to your industry. find out more... how we work: proven system that gets results attention to detail: in order for design and functionality to blend harmoniously, it is important to be meticulous. especially in this industry where a slight miscalculation can have repercussions on the totality of the project. easy communication: choose communication method of your choice, we are listening. we understand the value of transparent, clear and prompt communication with clients before, during and after project completion. transparent pricing: most our services come with a contract system where what you see is what you get. all work is done with a clear road map of calculated steps. pay as you go, we don't like surprises, and i'm sure you don't either! "great businesses begin with an idea then come to life with tools and technologies to make it happen. with 15 years of experience in the business, let me guide you in plain english to find the best fit for your needs and make sure we are crystal clear on your expectations. because what matters most in the end is transparent & effective communication, and that's exactly what we deliver. get in touch now and get a response in less than 12 hours." bruno vincent development workflow i ii iii iv v 1. discovery find out what kind of website you really need. what is the purpose of the site, what functionality are you looking for? what is your target audience? 2. wire framing choose a layout for the website and where to place visual, functional and interactive elements. plan cascade of content for all devices. 3. creative design choose typography, color palette, images, photos, logos. create content (slogan, headings, calls to action etc...) 4. development website installation and configuration. custom and/or default functionality development, scripts integration, form building etc... 5. testing and deployment test website on local environment. publish website online. design development marketing consulting translation home services design translation development marketing consulting contact quote work websites packaging logos print other contact 519/482 moo. 9, soi arunothai, central pattaya road nongprue, banglamung chon buri 20150 phone:0637603986 xuzo.com © 2020 xuzo media. all rights reserved. privacy