got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos tv news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... yes, hannah montana was just trying to be lizzie mcguire — says miley cyrus to hilary duff! home › miley cyrus › yes, hannah montana was just trying to be lizzie mcguire — says miley cyrus to hilary duff! the age old question has finally been answered — yes, hannah montana is a total copycat of lizzie mcguire! lolz, ok, that obviously isn’t fair to the creators of those shows, but as far as star miley cyrus is concerned, her entire career — and most especially her role as an undercover pop star — can be traced back to one role model. on wednesday night, miley posted another new episode of her instagram live show, bright minded, in which she chatted online with (while keeping her physical distance from) guests reese witherspoon, bebe rexha, dua lipa, and of course the woman who was her biggest inspiration, hilary duff. related: the lizzie mcguire revival storyline that scared off disney? mileybird sang the praises of hilary to her face, telling her she was “the reason that i wanted to do any of this.” she declared: “i wanted to say that i came to your concert when i was 11 and i told you that i wore a plaid skirt and uggs to the show because you wore a plaid skirt and uggs.” omg! the thought of baby miley fan-girling so hard is adorable! and you can watch a bit of it as gurl included a vintage clip of the pair talking during a muchmusic show from way back at the start of the hannah montana explosion. (c) miley cyrus/instagram the party in the usa singer went on to tell her fellow disney channel alum she went to el lay “almost immediately” after that “so i could audition for disney and i ended up getting the role.” “but the only reason i wanted it was so i could do whatever you did. and so really, i don’t think i gave a s**t about being an actress or a singer. i just wanted to copy you no matter what.” so there you have it. there would be no hannah montana without lizzie mcguire! miley gushed: “so i just wanted to say thank you again for just inspiring me. i would never be sitting here, being able to be a light if it wasn’t for you and you showing me how to do that.” hilary sent the love right back, exclaiming: “first of all, you’re so sweet, and i feel like i’ve known you for such a long time. just to hear you say that, i feel like you have been such a bright light and you have made so many choices that have been so bold and you’re an inspiration to me and to all of us — and you continue to be.” awww! it all starts about 18:20 (below)! view this post on instagram @reesewitherspoon, @hilaryduff, @beberexha, @dualipa a post shared by miley cyrus (@mileycyrus) on mar 25, 2020 at 8:09pm pdt [image via wenn/avalon/instar/disney channel/youtube.] related posts miley cyrus opens up to hailey bieber about her relationship with religion: ‘i’ve had a hard time’ legendary country music artist kenny rogers dead at 81 miley cyrus & demi lovato talk body image, confidence, and rekindling their friendship! liam hemsworth & gabriella brooks getting ‘serious’: ‘things have moved pretty quickly’ click click click next article next article mar 26, 2020 12:50pm pdt share this categories disney hilary duff miley cyrus nostalgia tv news view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy