skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download yoast seo by team yoast details reviews installation support development description yoast seo: the #1 wordpress seo plugin since 2008 yoast seo has helped millions of websites worldwide to rank higher in search engines. this wordpress seo plugin helps you with your search engine optimization. are you not entirely convinced? yoast seo is the favorite wordpress seo plugin of millions of users worldwide! as yoast’s mission is seo for everyone, the plugin’s users range from the bakery around the corner to some of the most popular sites on the planet. don’t let your competitors win do you know who your competitors are in your niche? there’s a reason why they are your competitors: they do what you do. and they might even do it better right now. that does not mean you can’t win from them, but it does mean you need all the help to get on top and stay on top! yoast seo is here to help you out as we’ve helped millions of people worldwide with their wordpress seo efforts. taking care of your wordpress seo yoast seo does everything in its power to please both visitors and search engine spiders. a dedicated team of developers, testers, architects and seo experts work daily to improve the plugin with every release. yoast seo offers: title and meta description templating for better branding and consistent snippets in the search results. a state-of-the-art schema implementation helps search engines make sense of your site and increases the chance on those coveted rich results. the most advanced xml sitemaps functionality at the push of a button. full control over your site’s breadcrumbs. automatically set canonical urls to avoid duplicate content. [premium] support for our yoast seo premium users. [premium] the ability to expand yoast seo with the news seo, video seo, local seo and woocommerce seo extensions. write killer content with yoast seo we know content is king, that’s why yoast seo is famous for its readability analysis and its seo analysis. yoast seo gives you: the seo analysis: an invaluable tool to write seo-friendly texts with the right (focus) keywords in mind. the readability analysis: make sure that you are writing easy-to-digest, engaging content for both visitors and search engines. our snippet preview that shows you how your post or page will look in the search results. even on mobile! an faq and howto block for the wordpress editor so search engines know when you are serving a faq page or howto guides. [premium] social previews to show you how your content will be shown on twitter and facebook. [premium] the insights tool that shows you what your text focuses on. this way you can keep your article in line with your keyphrases. [premium] the ability to optimize your article for synonyms and related keyphrases. [premium] we now recognize different word forms of your keyphrase, like singular and plurals, but also different tenses of verbs (just in english for now). it helps you improve your text in a more natural way. [premium] automatic internal linking suggestions: write your article and automatically get suggested posts to link to! keep your site in perfect shape whether you are a business owner or blogger, a content creator, a developer or an seo expert: yoast seo helps you keep your website in perfect shape. yoast seo: tunes the engine of your website so you can focus on creating great content. gives you cornerstone content and internal linking features to help you rank for the right keywords with the right pages. helps you manage your team’s wordpress seo efforts: with our seo roles you can give colleagues access to specific sections of the yoast seo plugin. has a bulk editor so you can make large-scale edits to the titles and meta descriptions of your website. translates your content to structured data where possible to help search engines understand your website. [premium] gives you social previews to manage the way your page is shared on social networks like facebook and twitter. [premium] has a full redirect manager to keep your site healthy by easily redirecting deleted pages and changed urls. premium support the yoast team aims to provide regular support for the yoast seo plugin on the wordpress.org forums. but please understand that we do prioritize our premium support. this one-on-one email support is available to people who bought yoast seo premium. did you know that the yoast seo premium also has several extra features: it gives you the option to have synonyms and related keyphrases. a redirect manager that f.i. helps you prevent 404 page not found errors. internal linking suggestions while you write. write more natural with our automatic recognition of word forms cornerstone content checks to point search engines to your main pages. the yoast seo premium plugin is well worth your investment! our addons to further improve your wordpress seo you should also check out these other products by yoast: yoast local seo to optimize all website that serve a local audience, like certain small businesses, or businesses with multiple locations. yoast video seo to make sure google understands what you video is about, thus increasing your chances to rank in video results. yoast news seo for websites that are in google news and what to optimize all news articles for the best indexation and ranking. woocommerce seo for all online shops that want to perform better in search engines and on social platforms. they work with the free version of yoast seo already, and these premium extensions of course come with support too. oh, and don’t forget: our yoast academy is for all the business owners, bloggers and everyone else who wants to learn more about optimizing websites, improving their wordpress seo and taking their online content to the next level. bug reports bug reports for yoast seo are welcomed in our wordpress seo repository on github. please note that github is not a support forum, and that issues that aren’t properly qualified as bugs will be closed. further reading for more info on search engine optimization and wordpress seo in specific, check out the following: the yoast seo plugin official homepage. the yoast seo knowledgebase. wordpress seo – the definitive guide by yoast. other wordpress plugins by the same team. follow yoast on facebook, instagram & twitter. screenshots the yoast seo plugin general meta box. you'll see this on edit post pages, for posts, pages and custom post types. example of the seo analysis functionality. example of the readability analysis functionality. overview of site-wide seo problems and possible improvements. control over which features you want to use. easily import seo data from other seo plugins like all in one seo pack, headspace2 seo and wpseo.de. installation starting with yoast seo consists of just two steps: installing and setting up the plugin. yoast seo is designed to work with your site’s specific needs, so don’t forget to go through the yoast seo configuration wizard as explained in the ‘after activation’ step! install yoast seo from within wordpress visit the plugins page within your dashboard and select ‘add new’; search for ‘yoast seo’; activate yoast seo from your plugins page; go to ‘after activation’ below. install yoast seo manually upload the ‘wordpress-seo’ folder to the /wp-content/plugins/ directory; activate the yoast seo plugin through the ‘plugins’ menu in wordpress; go to ‘after activation’ below. after activation you should see (a notice to start) the yoast seo configuration wizard; go through the configuration wizard and set up the plugin for your site; you’re done! faq how do the xml sitemaps in the yoast seo plugin work? having an xml sitemap can be beneficial for seo, as google can retrieve essential pages of a website very fast, even if the internal linking of a site isn’t flawless. the sitemap index and individual sitemaps are updated automatically as you add or remove content and will include the post types you want search engines to index. post types marked as noindex will not appear in the sitemap. learn more about xml sitemaps. how can i add my website to google search console? it is straightforward to add your website to google search console. 1. create a google search console account and login into your account. 1. click ‘add a property’ under the search drop-down. 1. enter your website url in the box and click ‘continue’. 1. click the arrow next to ‘html tag’ to expand the option. 1. copy the meta tag. 1. log in to your wordpress website. 1. click on ‘seo’ in the dashboard. 1. click on ‘general’. 1. click on the ‘webmaster tools’ tab. 1. paste the code in the google field and click ‘save changes’. 1. go back to google search console and click ‘verify’. if you want more details steps, please visit our article on our knowledge base. how do i implement yoast seo breadcrumbs? the steps below are a temporary solution as manual edits made to theme files may be overwritten with future theme updates. please contact the theme developer for a permanent solution. we’ve written an article about the importance of breadcrumbs for seo. to implement the [breadcrumbs]https://yoa.st/3qw) function in yoast seo, you will have to edit your theme. we recommend that prior to any editing of the theme files, a backup is taken. your host provider can help you take a backup. copy the following code into your theme where you want the breadcrumbs to be. if you are not sure, you will need to experiment with placement: `
 <?php *if* ( function_exists(‘yoast_breadcrumb’) ) { yoast_breadcrumb( ‘ ’,’ ’ ); } ?> ` common places where you could place your breadcrumbs are inside your single.php and/or page.php file just above the page’s title. another option that makes it really easy in some themes is by just pasting the code in header.phpat the very end. in most non-wootheme themes, this code snippet should not be added to your functions.php file. alternatively, you can manually add the breadcrumb shortcode to individual posts or pages: [wpseo_breadcrumb] if you need more details or a step by step guide, read our implementation guide for yoast seo breadcrumbs. how do i noindex urls? yoast seo provides multiple options for setting a url or group of urls to noindex. read more about how to do this in this guide. google shows the wrong description, how do i fix this? if you’ve crafted nice meta descriptions for your blog posts, nothing is more annoying than google showing another description for your site completely in the search result snippet. possible causes could be: 1. wrong description in code 2. google cache is outdated 3. search term manipulation 4. google ignored the meta description you can read more here on how to solve the issue with the wrong description. how often is yoast seo updated? yoast seo is updated every two weeks. if you want to know why, please read this post on why we release every two weeks! how do i get support? as our free plugin is used by millions of people worldwide, we cannot offer you all one on one support. if you have trouble with the yoast seo for wordpress plugin, you can get help on the support forums here at wordpress.org or by checking out or knowledge base at kb.yoast.com. the plugins you buy at yoast are called ‘premium plugins’ (even if premium isn’t in its name) and include a complete year of free updates and premium support. this means you can contact our support team if you have any questions about that plugin. read more on how to get support i have a different question than listed here your question has most likely been answered on our knowledge base: kb.yoast.com. reviews so handy and intuitive! ymartinmendieta march 26, 2020 been using this plug-in for years now and i find it very easy to use and helpfully for all seo matters. thank you! tons of troubleshooting with cache stas0 march 26, 2020 e.g. when change add redirect url and later changed target redirected url to another - redirected to first declared url. yoast not provided clear cache for that. i must remove old redirect row and create new one and then will be work. f***, bro make good product. thanks, your dear client! excellent as1support march 25, 2020 excellent plugin. love it niktosko march 25, 2020 thanks stupid set of advertising lastormo march 24, 2020 before there were settings and some kind of result, now it's just advertising and no settings. not a plugin, but just a virus nhận xét và đánh giá yoast seo nguyen26021993 march 20, 2020 xin cảm ơn yoast seo và wordpress đã cho tôi những trai nghiệm tốt nhất . và nhờ yoast seo và wordpress nên tôi đã biết bản thân mình làm được điều gì cho cuộc sống thêm ý nghĩa . read all 27,094 reviews contributors & developers “yoast seo” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors yoast joost de valk taco verdonschot omar reiss anton timmermans jip moors “yoast seo” has been translated into 41 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “yoast seo” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 13.3 release date: march 17th, 2020 our current string of releases focusing on improving our code is continuing with yoast seo 13.3. in this release, we have a schema structured data addition and several improvements to how yoast seo handles urls. read on in our 13.3 release post! enhancements: makes sure all url fields show an unencoded url after saving, even when the user input was encoded. requires all urls in url input fields to begin with either ‘/’ or ‘http(s)’. props to stodorovic. adds a potentialaction entity to the webpage and article schema pieces. bugfixes: fixes a bug where social urls containing international characters could not be saved. props to stodorovic. fixes a bug where encoded characters would be stripped from canonical urls. props to stodorovic and shahram rahbari. other: changes the curl health check category from recommended to critical. 13.2 release date: march 3rd, 2020 in yoast seo 13.2, you’ll find a number of checks moved to the wordpress site health tool. site health was introduced in wordpress 5.2 as a way to help site owners and managers get a sense of how their site is doing, technically speaking. find out more about these changes in our 13.2 release post! enhancements: adds the capability to view site health to the seo manager role. adds a curl minimal version check to site health. moves the “the postname is present in your permalink”-notification from the seo dashboard to site health. moves the “you are using the default wordpress tagline”-notification from the seo dashboard to site health. moves the “your site is indexable”-notification and widget from the seo dashboard to site health. improves the usability of the “your site is indexable” site health check. adds error handling for the “your site is indexable” status request. adds an id to the faq sections in the schema output. bugfixes: removes the “check headers”-tool from the yoast admin bar menu, as it is no longer available. meta version: 13.3 last updated: 1 week ago active installations: 5+ million wordpress version: 5.2 or higher tested up to: 5.4 php version: 5.6.20 or higher languages: see all 42 close bulgarian, catalan, chinese (china), chinese (hong kong), chinese (taiwan), croatian, czech, danish, dutch, dutch (belgium), english (australia), english (canada), english (new zealand), english (south africa), english (uk), english (us), french (canada), french (france), galician, german, hebrew, italian, japanese, norwegian (bokmål), persian, polish, portuguese (brazil), portuguese (portugal), romanian, russian, serbian, spanish (argentina), spanish (chile), spanish (costa rica), spanish (mexico), spanish (peru), spanish (spain), spanish (venezuela), swedish, turkish, ukrainian, and vietnamese. translate into your language tags: content analysisreadabilityseoxml sitemap advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 25,583 4 stars 609 3 stars 155 2 stars 111 1 star 635 contributors yoast joost de valk taco verdonschot omar reiss anton timmermans jip moors support issues resolved in last two months: 456 out of 516 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.