toggle navigation login the yoga fat loss bible are you ready to lose weight, get flexible, tone your body, and relieve your aches and pains with yoga... in just 14 days? off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the program is still available! “at 58 years young, i have started my yoga journey with the yoga fat loss bible program this week, and i am so very excited. the program has everything i need and very simple explanations of each and every pose that make it easy to follow along with!" – terry kallal, texas meet alison! she was brand new to yoga when she got started with us! "as we get older, we really need to maintain our flexibility, because the last thing we want to do is lose our mobility. i have found that these yoga poses through the yoga fat loss bible have really helped me regain my strength and my flexibility!" “i love the yoga fat loss bible! the information is very informative and easy to understand. the suggested steps are clear on how to perform them. i especially love how the yoga poses are shown with instructions on how to properly position your body to do the pose correctly.” – theresa clark, oregon does any of the following resonate with you? 1. you're sick of being told you have to do intense cardio and running to lose weight. dieting is hard. period. adding intense workouts on top of a strict diet? it's no wonder most diets fail. what if we told you that you could actually burn more fat with a less intense workout? 2. you are tired of feeling aches and pains just about everywhere. we are all a bit too immobile these days in modern society. we spend too much time in front of screens: phones, tvs, computers, tablets, you name it. it's bad for our hips and our backs. yoga is one of the best workouts to combat and prevent these aches and pains. 3. you often feel overwhelmed by most "workout routines" and just want something that's simple, but effective. you don't need an expensive gym membership and this program won't just throw pictures of women twisted like pretzels at you. it's simple, easy to follow, and go at your own pace on your own time! 4. you want to maintain some level of flexibility as you get older to help you stay in shape. flexibility is super important for our aging bodies. as we get older, we begin to feel more and more stiff when we get out of bed in the morning. how does being able to touch your toes forever sound? if so, you're in the right place! you’re probably shocked to learn that yoga is so highly effective at melting fat and toning the entire body through its gentle and slow-moving postures. we totally understand where you’re coming from! if you’re like millions of people, you’ve been brainwashed into believing losing weight is only possible with extreme workouts, grueling exercise classes, dangerous weight loss pills, starvation diets and even risky surgery. maybe you’ve even wasted your own hard-earned money on a few of those useless gimmicks in a desperate attempt to shed pounds… but they failed to deliver any sustainable results. workout and weight loss fads come and go… but the ancient practice of yoga has been around for an astonishing 5,000 years! we think you’ll admit that 5,000 years is a pretty impressive track record! do you think today’s exercise fads will be remembered in even a few months? (we don’t either). the word, “yoga” comes from sanskrit, and is an ancient practice of specific postures that unite body, mind and spirit for countless health benefits. the best part? it doesn’t matter how “old” you are, the state of your health, how flexible you may or may not be, or even if you’ve never worked out a day in your life! we’ve taught clients in their 70s, 80s and even 90s how to practice gentle yoga poses to lose weight, gain flexibility, develop strength and reap its other many health benefits. hey there! i'm lauren mcmanus, co-founder of avocadu.com and yogi behind this program! my health and fitness journey truly began when i was in college. the massive gym at the university of central florida had a great indoor track (florida was hot and humid!), and that was what ignited my passion for running! i ran regularly for years (about 8 to be exact). i used to pound the pavement every day trying to stay in shape and keep excess weight off. i also became a vegan at some point during those years, and then lost too much weight. my weight has fluctuated throughout the years from being overweight to underweight and everything in between. it wasn't until i met alex nerney (the other co-founder of avocadu.com and certified personal trainer and nutrition specialist) that i got my health and fitness on track. and then i found yoga... yoga helped me relieve some of my built-up stress (i’m a high strung individual if i’m really being honest), finally build some muscle tone, and stay fit in a way that running never gave me all my life. there are so many health benefits! keep reading to find out what yoga can do for you... we get asked these questions a lot... “is it really possible to lose weight on yoga?” “do i have to twist myself into a pretzel?” “am i too old to do yoga?” “am i too young to do yoga?” “can i do yoga if i’m out-of-shape?” “what’s the heck is yoga, anyway? let’s face it… myths and misinformation about yoga abound! we want to clear up each of those preconceived notions and common misconceptions that might be preventing you from getting started with yoga and getting into the best shape and health of your life! introducing... the yoga fat loss bible whether you're brand new to yoga or a seasoned pro... you will learn over 50 of the best yoga poses for burning fat, becoming toned, and getting into the best shape and health of your life! here's what you'll get... 50-fat burning yoga poses these yoga poses target every part of your body, including... legs and hamstrings, back and spine arms and shoulders, and even youur ankles and elbows! most of the poses are beginner level, but there are some intermediate to advanced poses that also come with beginner modifications! it also comes with beginner tips will help you get started! flexibility guide this flexibility guide contains the top stretches for maximum flexibility and tricks for fast results. it will help you target flexibility in specific areas, including hips and hamstrings back and spine and it also comes with warm-up exercises and rest poses, so you can stretch safely and avoid injury! whether your goal is to be able to do the splits or to just relieve some aches and pains in your back, this guide will help you get there! 6-week workout plan these workouts can be done from the comfort of your own home on your own yoga mat! it includes workouts for the following muscle groups: hips legs arms back abs butt the poses will target every muscle group for maximum toning and fat-burning potential! and there are also bonus workouts for balance and to challenge yourself! meditation guide meditation is super important to reducing your stress levels. cortisol, the stress hormone, can cause weight gain and prevent weight loss. incorporating even just a few minutes of meditation a day can aid your weight loss efforts. this beginner's guide is a great supplement to your new yoga practice.. but wait... that's not all! if you order now, you will also get these limited-time bonuses... bonus #1 additional 50 bonuses poses lastly, we have an additional fifty yoga poses for you to add to your routine, so you'll never get bored! these 50 bonus poses will add some variety to your practice and give you some "challenge" poses to work towards! it also comes with new workout cards! bonus #2 yoga video workouts these yoga workout videos will help you... tighten your stomach - shrink your belly with these 30-minute yoga workouts designed specifically for your core. burn more fat - this is the perfect addition to the yoga fat loss bible, with a special fat-burning, core-focused video training. provide more variety - these additional yoga video workouts provide more variety to your routine and are a fun mix up from the rest of the program! here's a sample of what you'll get with the yoga workout videos... meet kris moon, certified yoga instructor, mindfulness teacher, youtuber "i've partnered with lauren and alex to create a handful of video yoga practices just for you. whether you're wanting to lose some weight physically, mentally, or emotionally, or whatever your reason for committing to this program. i hope our time together supports you and your personal intention." join the thousands of yogis losing weight with the yoga fat loss bible! the yoga fat loss bible can be accessed on your computer, tablet, or smartphone! this means that you'll get instant access to the program after purchasing, so you can get started right away! off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the program is still available! get started now! paid course coupon discount $27 get started with the yoga fat loss bible! “the yoga fat loss bible has really helped in two ways: keeping me on track with my goals and improving my form so i get the maximum benefit from each pose. it's such an easy-to-follow program that really explains all the things you should be focusing on.” – margaret hazlett, virgina “love my yoga fat loss bible! i had no experience with yoga until i received the ebook from you. i have already seen progress in my range of motion in just two weeks!” – linda trussels, united kingdom everything you need is in this program, including... yoga poses for toned arms and shoulders. key yoga poses for slimmer thighs and losing cellulite. banish stubborn body fat with poses designed to tone and strengthen your core. tricks for obtaining a perky "yoga butt" with yoga poses designed to lift that booty! the 15 most powerful tips to speed-up your fat loss results. dietary tips to help with weight loss. 10 best stretches and tips for becoming more flexible. modifications for every pose if you have physical limitations, chronic pain, injuries or other health problems. 30-day money back guarantee if after 30 days of trying the yoga fat loss bible you are unsatisfied for any reason, just send an email to [email protected], and we will send you your money right back. all we ask is for proof that you tried the yoga fat loss bible. all refunds are subject to the terms of the refund policy. meet the fat loss experts behind the yoga fat loss bible: alex nerney and lauren mcmanus are the co-founders of avocadu and the yoga fat loss bible! lauren is a former vegan and alex nerney is a certified personal trainer and nutrition specialist with the following certifications: nesta, cscs, cooper certified, and issa. he has 20,000+ hours working one-on-one with clients both online and offline. we believe that being healthy starts from the inside out, beginning with the foods that we put into our body. in addition to dieting, reducing stress and improving strength and flexibility through yoga are among the many strategies that we teach at avocadu. “i have been using the yoga fat loss bible for 3 weeks, and it has been fantastic! i love how everything is laid out and the step-by-step guidelines of how to do the various poses! i feel less stressed, less anxious, more flexible, and most importantly, i am finally getting a good night's rest.” – refilwe mossmaa, kenya with the yoga fat loss bible... you don’t need to join an expensive gym. you don’t need to hire a costly personal trainer. you don’t need to hire a personal chef. you don’t need to go on a starvation diet. you don’t need to drink foul-tasting shakes. you don’t need to take dangerous diet pills. you don’t need to waste time in grueling extreme exercise classes or with lengthy workout dvds. you don’t need to go under the knife. the yoga fat loss bible can be accessed on your computer, tablet, or smartphone! this means that you'll get instant access to the program after purchasing, so you can get started right away! off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the program is still available! get started now! paid course coupon discount $27 get started with the yoga fat loss bible! © avocadu 2020 terms of use privacy policy refund policy disclaimer