news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals google with more people stuck at home, youtube is lowering automatic video quality playback you can still manually change it to hd, however. by josiah motley march 24, 2020 image: unsplash with many of us stuck at home during the coronavirus outbreak, it is only natural that more of us are spending time on things like netflix and youtube. it’s also putting more strain on the networks. italy has already felt the effects, due in part to an increased amount of gamers. now, youtube is doing its part to lessen the strain on networks, by lowering the auto-playing quality of videos on the platform. this comes from a new bloomberg report. for an entire month, starting this week, people that go on youtube will be treated to standard definition video, regardless of the quality levels provided by the channel. that said, you’ll still be able to up the quality once on the video of your choice, but it will not autoplay at high definition. typically, video quality is based on the user’s own internet speeds. in a statement to bloomberg, a google rep notes that the company is continuing “to work closely with governments and network operators around the globe to do our part to minimize stress on the system during this unprecedented situation.” what do you think? surprised by this news or are you glad to see google doing this to minimize stress on the networks? let us know down below in the comments or carry the discussion over to our twitter or facebook. editors’ recommendations: the u.s. government wants to track your phone to curb the spread of coronavirus uber eats will waive delivery fees for local restaurants due to the coronavirus alphabet has started rolling out its site for free coronavirus screening google translate’s real-time transcription feature is now live for android – here’s how to use it related topicscoronavirusgooglenewsyoutube josiah motley managing editor with a focus on all things tech and gaming. life adventurer. i only tweet about kevin and curtis @josiah_motley comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in google google translate’s real-time transcription feature is now live for android – here’s how to use it this could prove extremely helpful. alphabet has started rolling out its site for free coronavirus screening at present, it is only available in two locations in california. the google play store now supports dark mode – here’s how to turn it on everything is better in dark mode. how to use google assistant’s new text-to-speech feature on android ios users, you're out of luck (for now) google is releasing a new pixel features drop (12 of them) – here’s what they are new emoji, ar features, and more. google’s stadia is finally coming to more android phones will this increase adoption? google maps is set to launch a huge update on iphone and android – here’s what’s new the update includes new features and better navigation. uhhh, google might have sent some of your private google photos videos to strangers ok, google you dun goofed. a new study shows that speech recognition software has higher error rates with black people the fbi is pushing a home-workout app that tracks your location and wifi network home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie