home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads john steinbeck on good and evil, the necessary contradictions of the human nature, and our grounds for lucid hope ongoingness: sarah manguso on time, memory, beginnings and endings, and the true measure of aliveness elie wiesel’s timely nobel peace prize acceptance speech on human rights and our shared duty in ending injustice labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks zadie smith on optimism and despair “progress is never permanent, will always be threatened, must be redoubled, restated and reimagined if it is to survive.” by maria popova “all the goodness and the heroisms will rise up again, then be cut down again and rise up,” john steinbeck wrote to his best friend at the peak of wwii. “it isn’t that the evil thing wins — it never will — but that it doesn’t die.” caught in the maelstrom of the moment, we forget this cyclical nature of history — history being merely the rosary of moments the future strings of its pasts. we forget that the present always looks different from the inside than it does from the outside — something james baldwin knew when, in considering why shakespeare endures, he observed: “it is said that his time was easier than ours, but i doubt it — no time can be easy if one is living through it.” we forget that our particular moment, with all its tribulations and triumphs, is not neatly islanded in the river of time but swept afloat by massive cultural currents that have raged long before it and will rage long after. i have long believed that critical thinking without hope is cynicism, but hope without critical thinking is naïveté. where are we to turn for lucid hope, then, in cultural moments that inflame despair, which so easily metastasizes into cynicism? that is what the inimitable zadie smith explores in a piece titled “on optimism and despair,” originally delivered as an award acceptance speech and later adapted for her altogether fantastic essay collection feel free (public library). zadie smith (photograph by dominique nabokov) two days after the 2016 american presidential election, smith — a black englishwoman living in the freshly sundered united states — was invited to give a speech upon receiving a literary award in germany. traveling from a country on the brink of one catastrophic political regime to a country that has survived another, smith took the opportunity to unmoor the despair of the present from the shallow waters of the cultural moment and cast it into the oceanic context of humanity’s pasts, aswirl with examples and counterexamples of progress, with ideals attained and shattered, with abiding assurance that we shape tomorrow by how we navigate our parallel potentialities for moral ruin and moral redemption today. nearly half a century after the german humanistic philosopher erich fromm asserted that “optimism is an alienated form of faith, pessimism an alienated form of despair” and a turn of the cycle after rebecca solnit contemplated our grounds for hope in dark times, smith addresses a question frequently posed before her — why her earlier novels are aglow with optimism, while her later writing “tinged with despair” — a question implying that the arc of her body of work inclines toward an admission of the failure of its central animating forces: diversity, multiculturalism, the polyphony of perspectives. with an eye to “what the ancient greeks did to each other, and the romans, and the seventeenth-century british, and the nineteenth-century americans,” smith offers a corrective that stretches the ahistorical arc of that assumption: my best friend during my youth — now my husband — is himself from northern ireland, an area where people who look absolutely identical to each other, eat the same food, pray to the same god, read the same holy book, wear the same clothes and celebrate the same holidays have yet spent four hundred years at war over a relatively minor doctrinal difference they later allowed to morph into an all-encompassing argument over land, government and national identity. racial homogeneity is no guarantor of peace, any more than racial heterogeneity is fated to fail. illustration from alice and martin provensen’s vintage adaptation of homer’s iliad and odyssey echoing the great czech dissident-turned-president václav havel’s reflection on the meaning of human rights in a globalized yet divided world, she adds: i find these days that a wistful form of time travel has become a persistent political theme, both on the right and on the left. on 10 november the new york times reported that nearly seven in ten republicans prefer america as it was in the fifties, a nostalgia of course entirely unavailable to a person like me, for in that period i could not vote, marry my husband, have my children, work in the university i work in, or live in my neighborhood. time travel is a discretionary art: a pleasure trip for some and a horror story for others. meanwhile some on the left have time-travel fancies of their own, imagining that the same rigid ideological principles once applied to the matters of workers’ rights, welfare and trade can be applied unchanged to a globalized world of fluid capital. smith reframes the question of her shift in literary sensibility not as a decline toward defeatism but as an evolution toward greater complexity and more dimensional awareness of existence: the art of mid-life is surely always cloudier than the art of youth, as life itself gets cloudier. but it would be disingenuous to pretend it is only that. i am a citizen as well as an individual soul and one of the things citizenship teaches us, over the long stretch, is that there is no perfectibility in human affairs. this fact, still obscure to the twenty-one-year-old, is a little clearer to the woman of forty-one. in consonance with austrian-american sociologist peter berger’s classic humanistic antidote to cynicism, smith locates our reasons for optimism by widening the pinhole of the present: only the willfully blind can ignore that the history of human existence is simultaneously the history of pain: of brutality, murder, mass extinction, every form of venality and cyclical horror. no land is free of it; no people are without their bloodstain; no tribe entirely innocent. but there is still this redeeming matter of incremental progress. it might look small to those with apocalyptic perspectives, but to she who not so long ago could not vote, or drink from the same water fountain as her fellow citizens, or marry the person she chose, or live in a certain neighborhood, such incremental change feels enormous. smith supplements these grounds for hope with a sobering counterpoint to the historical nostalgia so alluring to the hegemony and so ruinous to the rest of us: meanwhile the dream of time travel — for new presidents, literary journalists and writers alike — is just that: a dream. and one that only makes sense if the rights and privileges you are accorded currently were accorded to you back then, too. if some white men are more sentimental about history than anyone else right now, it’s no big surprise: their rights and privileges stretch a long way back. for a black woman the expanse of livable history is so much shorter. what would i have been and what would i have done — or more to the point, what would have been done to me — in 1360, in 1760, in 1860, in 1960? i do not say this to claim some pedestal of perfect victimhood or historical innocence. i know very well how my west african ancestors sold and enslaved their tribal cousins and neighbors. i don’t believe in any political or personal identity of pure innocence and absolute rectitude. but neither do i believe in time travel. i believe in human limitation, not out of any sense of fatalism but out of a learned caution, gleaned from both recent and distant history. applying the tenth of her ten rules of writing — “resign yourself to the lifelong sadness that comes from never being satisfied.” — to life itself, smith adds: we will never be perfect: that is our limitation. but we can have, and have had, moments in which we can take genuine pride. “liminal worlds” by maria popova. available as a print. speaking from the german stage, smith recounts visiting the country during her first european book tour in her early twenties, traveling with her father, who had been there in 1945 as a young soldier in the reconstruction: we made a funny pair on that tour, i’m sure: a young black girl and her elderly white father, clutching our guidebooks and seeking those spots in berlin that my father had visited almost fifty years earlier. it is from him that i have inherited both my optimism and my despair, for he had been among the liberators at belsen and therefore seen the worst this world has to offer, but had, from there, gone forward, with a sufficiently open heart and mind, striding into one failed marriage and then another, marrying both times across various lines of class, color and temperament, and yet still found in life reasons to be cheerful, reasons even for joy. […] he was a member of the white working class, a man often afflicted by despair who still managed to retain a core optimism. perhaps in a different time under different cultural influences living in a different society he would have become one of the rabid old angry white men of whom the present left is so afeared. as it was, born in 1925 and dying in 2006, he saw his children benefit from the civilized postwar protections of free education and free health care, and felt he had many reasons to be grateful. this is the world i knew. things have changed, but history is not erased by change, and the examples of the past still hold out new possibilities for all of us, opportunities to remake, for a new generation, the conditions from which we ourselves have benefited… progress is never permanent, will always be threatened, must be redoubled, restated and reimagined if it is to survive. one of william blake’s engravings for dante’s divine comedy. in a sentiment that calls to mind susan sontag’s insistence on the moral responsibility of the writer and ursula k. le guin’s conviction that “an artist can best speak as a member of a moral community,” smith concludes by considering the writer’s role as a bastion of collective memory and an instrument of what is most symphonic in human nature: people who believe in fundamental and irreversible changes in human nature are themselves ahistorical and naive. if novelists know anything it’s that individual citizens are internally plural: they have within them the full range of behavioral possibilities. they are like complex musical scores from which certain melodies can be teased out and others ignored or suppressed, depending, at least in part, on who is doing the conducting. at this moment, all over the world — and most recently in america — the conductors standing in front of this human orchestra have only the meanest and most banal melodies in mind. here in germany you will remember these martial songs; they are not a very distant memory. but there is no place on earth where they have not been played at one time or another. those of us who remember, too, a finer music must try now to play it, and encourage others, if we can, to sing along. in the remainder of the thoroughly resplendent feel free — which includes the fantastic “find your beach” — smith applies her formidable mind in language to subjects as varied as music, the connection between dancing and writing, climate change, brexit, the nature of joy, and the confusions of personhood in the age of social media. complement this particular part with simone de beauvoir on moving beyond the simplistic divide of optimism and pessimism, toni morrison on the artist’s task through turbulent moments, and albert camus on how to strengthen our spirits in difficult times. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published february 8, 2018 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2018/02/08/zadie-smith-feel-free-optimism-and-despair/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under booksculturephilosophypoliticszadie smith view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.