i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: lemon meringue french toast recipe 30 minutes mains meat free pasta recipes ziti alla norma aka eggplant and tomato pasta super satisfying sautéed eggplant and tomato pasta. posted february 20, 2020 by stephanie the last few days have been exceptionally sunny and it’s making me hopeful for spring! i love winter, but i can’t wait to stop layering and not need to have my puffy coat. in an effort to remind me even more of warmer days, i made ziti alla norma because eggplants remind me of summer. this pasta was everything i was looking for: simple, hearty, and delicious. the softly seared eggplant is golden and creamy with a mild meltyness that addictively coats your tongue. the tanginess of the tomato sauce and the almost meaty eggplant come together to make a quick satisfying vegetarian dinner. nothing’s more comforting than a bowl of pasta in a silky, well balanced tart, yet sweet tomato sauce. it’s a dish everyone loves, even eggplant haters! but, maybe you’re wondering what exactly ziti alla norma is? what is ziti alla norma? ziti alla norma is a classic sicilian pasta dish made with sautéed eggplant and tomato sauce. it’s usually finished with ricotta salata – a pressed, salted, aged version of the ricotta you know and love. it’s not so common so you can do as i did and finish with parmesan, but apparently a lot of italian people say that alla norma with out ricotta salata is not alla norma at all. like lots of italian dishes, it’s supposed to be simple but perfectly executed. on eggplants lots of people like to salt their eggplant first to remove excess moisture and bitterness, but i think it’s better to just go ahead and choose an eggplant that doesn’t have a lot of seeds (which is what contributes to the moisture and bitterness). i tend to like to use japanese eggplants – the long variety that the emoji is based on, but of course you can use globe eggplants too. just be careful when you’re choosing your globe eggplant. look at the bottom of the eggplant – you want one that has a round belly button, not a line. ziti alla norma reminds me of long summer nights hanging out at an italian vineyard with friends, watching the sun go down with the pleasant buzz of lightning bugs in the distance. boards of cured italian meats, bowls of olives, and of course platter after platter of pasta alla norma. summertime perfection. of course really, i just ate this while in my pjs while watching netflix, but a girl can dream, am i right? ziti alla norma ziti tossed with sautéed eggplants and tomato sauce prep time 10 mins cook time 20 mins total time 30 mins ingredients 1 eggplant cut into pieces similarly sized to the ziti 2-3 tbsp olive oil 2 cloves garlic minced 14 ounce can of diced tomatoes 1/2 tsp dried oregano salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 8 ounces ziti or other short pasta ricotta salata or parmesan to serve fresh basil to serve instructions heat up 2-3 tablespoons of oil over medium high heat. when hot and shimmery, cook the eggplant in batches, until golden brown and very soft. remove from the oil and set aside. add the garlic and cook until slightly soft. add the tomatoes and oregano and bring to a gentle simmer. cook the pasta in a large pot of boiling salted water until al dente. reserve a 1/2 cup of pasta water and drain. add the eggplant and the pasta into the tomatoes and toss until coated and glossy. taste and adjust the seasoning. serve with basil and cheese. enjoy immediately. 3 comments nathan says: february 20, 2020 at 11:52 pm the sauteed eggplant is the perfect addition to this amazing dish. thanks for the recipe! reply catherine tipton says: february 21, 2020 at 2:36 pm i have tried eggplant parmesan & eggplant lasagna but this is simple & tastes great ! ty reply stephanie says: february 29, 2020 at 11:34 pm hope you get a chance to try it! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website eggplantitaliannoodlestomatoesziti everything bagel spice aglio e olio pastaread better than takeout sesame noodlesread instant pot pasta and meatballsread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved