skip navigation patreon logo log in patreon logo create on patreon log in you must be 18+ to view this content zoe margolis is creating content you must be 18+ to view. are you 18 years of age or older? yes, i am 18 or older zoe margolis become a patron zoe margolisis creating journals, a podcast, and a screenplay select a membership level red $2 per month join every $ helps. thank you. you’ll be able to view patron-only content, and gain access to tickets for film screening + q&a orange $5 per month join every $ helps. thank you. you'll be able to read personal blog posts, access patron-only content, and gain access to tickets for film screening + q&a yellow $8 per month join every $ helps. thank you. you'll be able to listen to the podcast (when launched), read personal blog posts, access patron-only content, and gain access to tickets for film screening + q&a see all 8 levels 11patrons share follow about hi, i'm zoe margolis. you might know me from my blog or books girl with a one track mind. yes, they were all about sex. my journalism, published in the guardian, observer, new statesman, telegraph, cosmopolitan, and others, includes topics such as online privacy, feminism, sex, film, running and mental health. i’ve also done bits and bobs for channel 4, itv, bbc, bbc radio 4 & 5, on a variety of subjects. if you follow me on twitter, you know i swear prolifically, am extremely sarcastic, post many cat photos, and have amazing hair. i’ve set up this patreon because i want to offer people access to all my new work. here’s why: 1) i have unpublished writing which has no home, because it doesn't fit on my girl with a one track mind blog (though some of it is about sex) and is not right for a national paper (though there are journalistic pieces). i’m going to post these on patreon, and produce regular, updated content. 2) i really miss daily blogging, sharing silly observations, and engaging directly with readers. i want to test out new writing and expand on those ideas, and i’d like to offer snippets of that with people who enjoy my work. yes, i will allow comments btl: please be nice. 3) i am creating a podcast (on film, art, theatre, sex, objectification, and other topics), and am inviting other commentators/experts to contribute. i have borrowed equipment for now, but i will soon need to buy my own microphones and editing software, as well as hire studio space and pay contributors, and patreon will enable all this to happen! 4) i plan to host some exclusive, private film screenings + q&as. these will include classic genre films and possibly some new releases. if you know my work, you know i love film: these events should be loads of fun. tickets will initially only be available to patrons. 5) patreon will free me up to work on the things that i really want to make happen. right now, that's the screenplay of my book. if you'd like to see girl with a one track mind, the film, as a counterbalance to the sexism and tackiness of 50 shades of grey, then i hope you'll consider supporting me. this is my main writing project and i will post draft material exclusively for patrons as i go along. goals 9% complete set up podcast - buy microphones, hire studio, pay contributors1 of 5 by becoming a patron, you'll instantly unlock access to 24 exclusive posts 24writings by becoming a patron, you'll instantly unlock access to 24 exclusive posts 24writings recent posts by zoe margolis how it works get started in 2 minutes choose a membership sign up add a payment method get benefits patreon logo what is patreon?by supporting creators you love on patreon, you're becoming an active participant in their creative process. as a member, you receive exclusive content, community access, behind-the-scenes updates, and the pride of fueling work that matters to you. can i cancel my pledge any time?yes, you can easily cancel or upgrade your pledge at any time! learn more about privacy policy & terms accessibility help center & faq patreon logo © patreon sitemap