global nav open menu global nav close menu apple shopping bag + search apple.com cancel apple mac ipad iphone watch tv music support shopping bag + cancel app store preview this app is available only on the app store for iphone and ipad. hubspot 4+ crm, sales & conversations hubspot, inc. 4.6, 3.1k ratings free screenshots iphone ipad description manage your deals, contacts and tasks on the move, and stay connected to your leads, customers, and team. • focus on the day ahead - see upcoming tasks and to-do reminders. • run your sales process on the road - manage deals on the fly. access contacts even when you’re offline. make and take logged calls. email faster with reusable templates. • be prepared for every meeting - have notes, deal status, and contact history to hand. • stay informed - get real-time notifications about important events. • no more end-of-day admin - quickly add notes and follow-up actions while details are fresh. scan and store business cards - no manual entry. • stay connected to your team - assign tasks to teammates. update deals as they progress. see up-to-date sales leaderboards. • keep the conversations going - call, email, and live chat with leads and customers wherever you are. about hubspot hubspot is a full suite of sales, marketing and customer service tools, with a completely free crm at its core. it’s used by 56,500 people in over 100 countries to save time, attract visitors and grow their business. what’s new version history mar 16, 2020 version 3.225.0 this release contains bug fixes and general improvements. thanks for using the hubspot app. ratings and reviews see all 4.6 out of 5 3.1k ratings 3.1k ratings sommernorris , 07/16/2018 repeat notification overload the app is great for letting me know when my emails are opened, which is the main reason i chose to use it. i love that i can see when someone reads my email and that i can sort my contacts by who opened emails most recently and who i’ve last made contact with, etc. however, the app on the phone is driving me crazy. every time i open one of my own tracked emails or someone in the thread opens the email the app will send me a notification every 2 seconds that the email was opened, and it won’t stop bombarding my phone with the notifications until i exit the email (which is after i finish replying) and then have a hundred notifications. it also counts towards the 200 notifications you are allowed to receive for free, using all those up for already reported information. although hubspot will surely make a fix for it, i had to mention it or else they might not ever see it! adam v. , 12/20/2018 no support for the tickets feature my company has been using hubspot for sales and marketing tracking for about a year. we started using the tickets feature about two months ago that allows us to create and track customer support tickets. as the customer care lead for our company, it’s critical that i’m able to access our support tickets on the go. this is nearly impossible to do without carrying my computer with me. the tickets section of their website is nowhere to be found in their iphone app. while you can login to your hubspot account in a mobile browser by going directly to the login page url (the login link is not displayed on the mobile version of their home page), trying to interact with your hubspot account in a mobile browser will test your patience. i know the tickets feature is relatively new for hubspot; but i hope their team understands that it’s important that we be able to access things like that on the go from whatever device we have with us. developer response , hi adam, thanks for your feedback. the good news is that we're planning to support service tickets on mobile, see more here https://bit.ly/2cm3z31. regards ronan zackswire , 06/14/2018 come a long way i’ve got to admit... i wasn’t a huge fan of the first couple iterations of the hubspot app. even went to try many others (pipedrive, salesforce, pipeline deals, and more). but, i came back to check out hubspot again and i’m more than pleasantly surprised. we decided to move everything under the hs roof - support, sales, marketing and more. it’s incredible having our shopify site and all the data collect in one place. the app is a great extension of the site for when we’re on the go and a perfect tool for the sales side of our business. yeah it has some things that could improve, but you can say that about everyone. use it properly and it will change your business and make your life easier! information seller hubspot size 109.8 mb category business compatibility requires ios 11.0 or later. compatible with iphone, ipad, and ipod touch. languages english, french, german, japanese, portuguese, spanish age rating 4+ copyright © 2019 hubspot, inc price free developer website app support privacy policy developer website app support privacy policy supports family sharing with family sharing set up, up to six family members can use this app. more by this developer see all inbound 2019 business you may also like see all mailchimp marketing & crm business zoho crm - sales & marketing business expensify: receipts & expenses business asana: organize tasks & work business wework business google analytics business more ways to shop: find an apple store or other retailer near you. or call 1-800-my-apple. choose your country or region copyright © 2020 apple inc. all rights reserved. privacy policy terms of use sales and refunds legal site map