global nav open menu global nav close menu apple shopping bag + search apple.com cancel apple mac ipad iphone watch tv music support shopping bag + cancel app store preview this app is available only on the app store for iphone and ipad. nerdwallet 4+ credit score, budget, finance nerdwallet #116 in finance 4.8, 53.1k ratings free screenshots iphone ipad description see the bigger picture of your money, stay in the know whenever your credit score or finances change, and get personalized recommendations to help you grow your money and reach your financial goals. download this personal finance app today and join the millions of people who are already using nerdwallet to make smart money moves. easily see the bigger picture of your money get a clear and complete view of your finances. with easy-to-read summaries and insights, you can easily check your credit score report, account balances, spending and more – all on one screen. stay close to your money with notifications and alerts we'll keep you up to speed when anything major changes to your finances – whether it's a large purchase, deposit or major change to your credit score. get personalized recommendations see how you can build your credit score, avoid paying late fees, earn more interest and more – all with insights that are personal to you. grow your money with rewards maximize your points and miles, earn more cash back and easily find the best products for you. credit report tracking and monitoring see the important details on your credit report easily check your score, learn how to build your credit score and know where you stand on all the most important credit report factors. spending and saving features track your total money know your grand total and easily see how you're doing across your checking, savings, investment, and retirement accounts – all on one screen. see the ins and outs of your money every month we factor in your income, expenses and upcoming bills so you know how much you have left to save or spend – making it easy to check how you're doing. know where your money is going after linking your accounts, you can easily see your spending broken down by category to help you spot trends. get insights about your spending see tailored insights and financial savings tips that are personal to you, and can help you build your bottom line. take action on our money-growing recommendations make free transfers between your accounts at different banks without leaving nerdwallet. all you have to do is link your accounts. see the best products for you your situation is unique; your money moves should be, too. get money-saving product recommendations based on your credit score and spending. tips to help you earn more rewards take advantage of your most rewarding cards see the rewards rates on each of your cards so you know what to swipe where. you don't even have to link your accounts to see these tips. extra cash in your pocket you don't need a rewards card to earn rewards. just link any qualifying card and start earning an additional 2-10% cash back at participating stores, both online and nearby. debt-tracking tools see the comprehensive view of what you owe from loans to credit card debt, you can get a personal view of everything you owe. stay on top of upcoming payments never miss a credit card bill with helpful reminders when bills are due. download this personal finance app today and see why nerdwallet gets mentioned by nbc, cnn, fox, the new york times, the wall street journal and many, many more publications. what’s new version history mar 13, 2020 version 5.8.0 we've improved our app -- cleaning up bugs that will help the app run smoother and look better. ratings and reviews see all 4.8 out of 5 53.1k ratings 53.1k ratings iame.o.houston , 10/02/2019 the truth for me at least. i was working hard as hell at a fast food restaurant for about 2 years when i met a guy who taught me about credit. he recommended this app, i quickly download it and started my journey on building my credit. i use to think “why have credit? why worry about credit?, why would i put myself at risk of owing money to a bank or personal lender, i have heard so many bad things.” but the guy i met explained to me vividly how to go about building and maintaining my credit to insure that “in the worst case scenario you’ll be taken care of, but only if you use credit for credit not to splurge. don’t use it as a means to obtain cash you don’t have at hand. use it as a means that ensures that as you progress in life, even if things turn sour you’ll be okay but only if you maintain you’re credibility. this app will help you, i’m certain.” this helped me out a lot, i watched my credit go from 552 to 688 in a matter of 8 months of being responsible and paying back what was owed and maintaining current or new credit accounts. i give nerdwallet a 1,000,000 star rating. developer response , thank you so much for your rating and review, and especially for sharing your inspiring story! it's always great to hear about successes like yours. keep up the good work, and please let us know if you have any suggestions or ideas for us. you can share any time at appsupport@nerdwallet.com, we're always listening! 5/5 - read , 07/14/2019 nerd wallet i normally calculate my finances on my imac, however, i have multiple bank accounts so it’s nice to see how much money i have with all my accounts combined. i can get the balance for each account by logging in into each app, but to make it simpler it’s easier to use only one (nerdwallet). what i appreciate is i also have my few credit card accounts & an investment account so it saves me lots of extra time. it also shows you credit score (only one unfortunately) which normally there are 3 credit bureaus. if you pay everything w/ debit and credit card it’ll automatically post your transactions to the select fields: (grocery, travel, gas, payments, etc). it’s simple to use if you have multiple accounts. if you’re seeing this; take this golden nugget: never max out your credit card but purchase all items w/ credit cards. you’ll at least get some $ back that you were already going to spend. save yourself at least some money. best of luck, i haven’t read any other reviews but only going based off my own personal belief. developer response , thank you so much for the detailed review and 5-star rating, we really appreciate it! mackenzie9823 , 10/09/2019 i love nerdwallet!! as someone who just graduated college and started earning income, paying bills, and building my credit, this app has made my life so much easier. i am able to stay on top of my finances and see everything in one place. the best part is i can connect all my different accounts (acorns, robinhood, checking/savings, retirement, car loan, etc) and know exactly how much is in each account. this is the first time i’ve gotten a full picture of how much money i have and how much money i owe. i also love that i can see which categories my spending goes towards and recategorize purchases if i need to (something that a lot of other budgeting apps i’ve tried don’t let you do). this has helped me come up with a realistic budget and savings goals. the personalized advice has helped me raise my credit score by over 40 points in the last 4 months. this app is awesome- i can’t believe it’s free. thanks so much for the amazing service you provide. developer response , thank you so much for the positive feedback, mackenzie! we are delighted to be part of your financial journey and so happy that you are finding great value in the nerdwallet app and the services available through it. we'll keep working hard to make it even better - if you have ideas or suggestions for us, please feel free to send them along to appsupport@nerdwallet.com - we're always listening! information seller nerdwallet, inc. size 85.2 mb category finance compatibility requires ios 9.3 or later. compatible with iphone, ipad, and ipod touch. languages english age rating 4+ copyright © nerdwallet, inc. price free developer website app support privacy policy developer website app support privacy policy supports family sharing with family sharing set up, up to six family members can use this app. you may also like see all credit sesame finance myfico - official fico® scores finance lendingtree finance capital one creditwise finance tally: pay off debt faster finance experian credit report finance more ways to shop: find an apple store or other retailer near you. or call 1-800-my-apple. choose your country or region copyright © 2020 apple inc. all rights reserved. privacy policy terms of use sales and refunds legal site map