home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. we and the color home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style home legal information about we and the color is a blog (founded in may 2010) about creative inspiration in art, graphic design, illustration, photography, architecture, fashion, product, interior, video and motion design. we and the color is property of the dp handels- & medienagentur. disclaimer in spite of careful monitoring of the content we do not accept any liability for the content of external links. the content of linked sites is the sole responsibility of the operators of those sites. affiliate we and the color is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com, endless.com or smallparts.com. we and the color is a participant in the amazon europe s.à r.l. associates programme, an affiliate advertising programme designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.co.uk/javari.co.uk/amazon.de/amazon.fr/javari.fr/amazon.it. company we and the color dp handels- & medienagentur ceo: dirk petzold naumannstr. 10 01309 dresden, germany e-mail: meandyou@weandthecolor.com phone: +49(0)351.2899726 web: www.weandthecolor.com conditions orders will be exclusively implemented by the trading conditions of the dirk petzold handels- & medienagentur. contract the dirk petzold handels- & medienagentur is obligated to assume the goods orders of the customer by the valid regulations of this website. the written confirmation of order will be send by e-mail to the customer. in the case of contentwise errors (write errors, calculation errors, misprint) on this website or in writing and oral offers, we are entitled to withdraw from the sales contract. if the ordered products are not available, we are entitled to withdraw too. in thise case the customer is informed, that the ordered products are not available. the customer is entitled to recall his order written by fax, e-mail or post. further the customer has the possibility, to send back the the commodity in the prescribed period(14 days after after receipt of the commodity). in the case of visible use we are entitled for a depreciation. prices the proven prices are obligatory. all proven prices are inclusive the valid tax. the purchase shipping only after receipt of payment via paypal or credit card. property the ordered commodity is property of the dirk petzold handels- & medienagentur up to the complete payment. adhesion for lack the customer has to examine the dispatched commodity. for objections of lack apply the fixed warranty terms. the customer has the right for a replacement within 14 days after receipt. if we are not able for a replacement , the customer has requirement on depreciation or it can withdraw from the purchase. limitation the limitation period is 24 months after receiving the goods. data security personal information of the customer are strictly confidentially treated and and will not passed. july 2012 email by continuing, you accept the privacy policy editor picks 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 top graphic designers on instagram to follow for creative inspiration popular posts central park infrared/aerochrome photos i am an actor by franck bohbot lane coder – underwater photography popular category design4038 graphic design2565 recommendations1479 branding1427 illustration1384 fonts895 photography892 art880 templates548 about us we and the color is a web magazine for your daily art and design inspiration. we feature outstanding projects of various creative fields. in addition, you can find trendy graphics, templates, and fonts for download. read more here. contact us: meandyou@weandthecolor.com follow us legal information privacy advertisement © copyright 2019 we and the color – all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. by continuing, you are agreeing to our terms of use.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled