skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer the wonder of tech making personal technology user-friendly for you! home about archives social media contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! you are here: home / archives for 3d 3d carolyn nicander mohr / november 19, 2018 11 awesome holiday tech gifts for 2018! shopping for holiday gifts can be challenging, until you turn to tech. that’s right, your loved ones want nothing more than the holiday cheer a tech gift can bring. even if they aren’t fans of tech, your nearest and dearest will appreciate these tech gifts that will make their lives easier and more fun. you […] tweet share1 share pin4 email 5 shares carolyn nicander mohr / september 10, 2015 apple special event introduces iphone 6s, ipad pro, apple tv and watch that time of year is upon us again, the season of apple when new devices are launched. yesterday apple held a two-hour special event, announcing new products and new models of existing products. apple watch tim cook, ceo of apple, began the event by talking about the success of apple watch. launched in april […] tweet101 share30 share1 pin3 email 135 shares carolyn nicander mohr / november 24, 2014 your best holiday tech gifts for 2014! are you stuck for ideas on what gifts to get your loved ones? are you looking for ideas for your own wish list? well, you’ve arrived at the right place. the wonder of tech is here to help! this year’s holiday tech gift list is brimming with ideas for everyone, in all price ranges and […] tweet98 share15 share2 pin8 email 123 shares next page » primary sidebar carolyn nicander mohr subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: search the wonder of tech! search this website recent posts google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources 12 ways tech can help with social distancing how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center 3 ways to avoid social distance in the age of technology redbox launches free live tv, no subscription needed recent comments carolyn nicander mohr on google maps celebrates 15 years with new features! carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing popular posts chirp – a new place to get deals on audiobooks how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center google maps adds enhanced guidance for people with impaired vision (and everyone else) survey shows how wearables can improve lives [infographic] the many reasons why you may want apple carplay in your next (or current) car subscribe to the wonder of tech rss feed wonder of tech rss feed like the wonder of tech on facebook like the wonder of tech on facebook! triberr atomic tribe subscribe to the wonder of tech on feedly! subscribe on the kindle! the wonder of tech kindle subscription by subscribing to the wonder of tech on the kindle, you can have new articles automatically downloaded as soon as they're published! privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy categories categories select category android apps breaking news cameras cars cell phones cell phones cloud computers ebooks education ereaders featured fitness gaming devices internet ipad ipad iphone iphone mac movies music personal technology personal technology photography robots shopping social media tablets television triberr uncategorized wearables websites windows subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: footer subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: let’s connect! facebook flickr google+ linkedin pinterest rss twitter youtube home about archives social media policies privacy policy comment policy guest post policy review policy thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! tags 3d amazon android apple apps at&t cloud education email facebook fitness fun videos gaming gifts google gps handy tips hulu+ internet radio ipad iphone itunes kindle movies music netflix nintendo nook parenting photography pinterest poll roku sd cards security shopping slingbox tablets texts travel twitter verizon virgin mobile wearables youtube copyright © 2020 · digital pro on genesis framework · wordpress · log in home about archives social media policies thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here!