the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop news ‘animal crossing: new horizons’ developers confirm no one can hurt you here, no one can make you scared you may also like ogn deal alert: the federal government is cutting you a $1,200 stimulus check that you can, and should, spend exclusively on 75 copies... wednesday 4:28pm ogn ogn investigates: we exposed an orphan to nothing but violent games for the first 12 years of his life and while it didn’t make hi... wednesday 10:41am ogn miss e3? check out our recreation with a bunch of sweating, overheated gamers we locked in our janitorial closet today 12:44pm more from g/o media read on nation close to getting videoconferencing software to work read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure read on deal alert: the federal government is cutting you a $1,200 stimulus check that you can, and should, spend exclusively on 75 copies of ‘stardew valley’ read on 10 photos of plus-size models we deserve a pat on the back for running subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe 3/20/20 9:03am • see more:onion gamers network onion gamers networkanimal crossingvideo gamesnewsvol 56 issue 11 the long wait is over animal crossing fans! it’s been over a decade since a true mainline franchise has hit a nintendo console, but today new horizons is finally rolling out on the switch. and if that wasn’t exciting enough news, the developers also used the release to confirm one amazing new detail about the game’s world—that nobody can hurt you here and no one can make you scared, and there is nothing but boundless warmth and peace awaiting you once you press play! we can’t wait to pick up our copy. “we know animal crossing’s fans have been waiting patiently, but today, we can finally tell you that it’s all okay. here, you are safe, and here, you are loved,” said director aya kyogoku in a video announcement, in which she spoke in a soft and welcoming tone as she held her arms open to all who wished to have their worries vanish into the abundant kindness all around them within new horizons. “let the problems of the world drift away. tom nook, isabelle, and all your friends are here waiting for you.” advertisement “come on in,” she added. “the water’s just fine.” welp, gamers, this is great news, isn’t it? knowing that you can just spend your time building a nice little house on a nice little island, that all the pain is gone, that this is a safe, special place. we think that is a pretty nifty new game feature. kyogoku continued to note: “there are no tears here. just joy and companionship—no mean coworkers and bosses, no anxieties and self-doubt about your personal life. here you are accepted solely for who you are. let all your problems melt away in the warm embrace of animal crossing.” so, there is your marching order, readers! if you’re looking for a place where love for you knows no bounds and nothing bad can ever touch you, go pick up a copy of new horizons. it’s out today! advertisement share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion thousands of formerly endangered white rhinos flood city streets mere days after humans quarantined indoors historians politely remind nation to check what's happened in past before making any big decisions u.s. economy grinds to halt as nation realizes money just a symbolic, mutually shared illusion haunting photographs capture empty spaces around the country amid shelter-in-place orders share tweet