skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer the wonder of tech making personal technology user-friendly for you! home about archives social media contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! you are here: home / archives for handy tips handy tips carolyn nicander mohr / march 16, 2020 12 ways tech can help with social distancing a mere two weeks ago, the wonder of tech published a guest post entitled 3 ways to avoid social distance in the age of technology. during those two weeks, life has changed dramatically around the world due to the global coronavirus pandemic (also known as covid-19). now, with social distancing being the best defense against […] tweet share8 share pin5 email 13 shares carolyn nicander mohr / march 9, 2020 how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center if you have an apple watch, you probably use it to track your exercise, measure your heart rate, get notifications, read text messages, see who’s calling you, and so much more. but to make the best use of your apple watch, you should check out the handy tools in control center on your watch. control […] tweet share3 share pin email 3 shares aileen brent / march 2, 2020 3 ways to avoid social distance in the age of technology if you are reading this article during the coronavirus pandemic, please do practice social distancing to help stop the spread of the virus. other wonder of tech articles to check out that may help you with social distancing during the coronavirus pandemic include: 12 ways tech can help with social distancing google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 […] tweet share4 share pin10 email 14 shares next page » primary sidebar carolyn nicander mohr subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: search the wonder of tech! search this website recent posts google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources 12 ways tech can help with social distancing how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center 3 ways to avoid social distance in the age of technology redbox launches free live tv, no subscription needed recent comments carolyn nicander mohr on google maps celebrates 15 years with new features! carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing popular posts chirp – a new place to get deals on audiobooks how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center google maps adds enhanced guidance for people with impaired vision (and everyone else) survey shows how wearables can improve lives [infographic] the many reasons why you may want apple carplay in your next (or current) car subscribe to the wonder of tech rss feed wonder of tech rss feed like the wonder of tech on facebook like the wonder of tech on facebook! triberr atomic tribe subscribe to the wonder of tech on feedly! subscribe on the kindle! the wonder of tech kindle subscription by subscribing to the wonder of tech on the kindle, you can have new articles automatically downloaded as soon as they're published! privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy categories categories select category android apps breaking news cameras cars cell phones cell phones cloud computers ebooks education ereaders featured fitness gaming devices internet ipad ipad iphone iphone mac movies music personal technology personal technology photography robots shopping social media tablets television triberr uncategorized wearables websites windows subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: footer subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: let’s connect! facebook flickr google+ linkedin pinterest rss twitter youtube home about archives social media policies privacy policy comment policy guest post policy review policy thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! tags 3d amazon android apple apps at&t cloud education email facebook fitness fun videos gaming gifts google gps handy tips hulu+ internet radio ipad iphone itunes kindle movies music netflix nintendo nook parenting photography pinterest poll roku sd cards security shopping slingbox tablets texts travel twitter verizon virgin mobile wearables youtube copyright © 2020 · digital pro on genesis framework · wordpress · log in home about archives social media policies thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here!