skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer the wonder of tech making personal technology user-friendly for you! home about archives social media contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! you are here: home / archives for internet radio internet radio carolyn nicander mohr / september 2, 2019 how to change your default music service for alexa to spotify, apple music, and more if you have an echo device, you probably know that you can ask alexa to play a variety of songs. but unless you have a paid subscription to amazon music, the number of songs alexa can play for you is somewhat limited. the good news is that you can change alexa’s default music service to […] tweet share2 share pin13 email 15 shares carolyn nicander mohr / march 7, 2016 echo dot and amazon tap: 2 new ways to ask alexa anything, anywhere amazon added two new devices to its stable last week with the launch of echo dot and amazon tap. both are closely related to the echo, the first device to use amazon’s voice assistant alexa. with the introduction of dot and tap, amazon is letting you ask alexa anything, anywhere. the three siblings, echo, dot […] tweet75 share2 share pin8 email 85 shares carolyn nicander mohr / june 10, 2015 wwdc 2015 — what’s ahead for apple if you use any apple products, or are thinking about using apple products, you’ll be excited to learn what apple announced this week at its world wide developers conference. changes, new services, and updates to its mac, iphone and ipad operating systems mean the future will be different. apple announced updates for its iphone, ipad, […] tweet78 share11 share pin3 email 92 shares next page » primary sidebar carolyn nicander mohr subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: search the wonder of tech! search this website recent posts google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources 12 ways tech can help with social distancing how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center 3 ways to avoid social distance in the age of technology redbox launches free live tv, no subscription needed recent comments carolyn nicander mohr on google maps celebrates 15 years with new features! carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing popular posts chirp – a new place to get deals on audiobooks how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center google maps adds enhanced guidance for people with impaired vision (and everyone else) survey shows how wearables can improve lives [infographic] the many reasons why you may want apple carplay in your next (or current) car subscribe to the wonder of tech rss feed wonder of tech rss feed like the wonder of tech on facebook like the wonder of tech on facebook! triberr atomic tribe subscribe to the wonder of tech on feedly! subscribe on the kindle! the wonder of tech kindle subscription by subscribing to the wonder of tech on the kindle, you can have new articles automatically downloaded as soon as they're published! privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy categories categories select category android apps breaking news cameras cars cell phones cell phones cloud computers ebooks education ereaders featured fitness gaming devices internet ipad ipad iphone iphone mac movies music personal technology personal technology photography robots shopping social media tablets television triberr uncategorized wearables websites windows subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: footer subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: let’s connect! facebook flickr google+ linkedin pinterest rss twitter youtube home about archives social media policies privacy policy comment policy guest post policy review policy thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! tags 3d amazon android apple apps at&t cloud education email facebook fitness fun videos gaming gifts google gps handy tips hulu+ internet radio ipad iphone itunes kindle movies music netflix nintendo nook parenting photography pinterest poll roku sd cards security shopping slingbox tablets texts travel twitter verizon virgin mobile wearables youtube copyright © 2020 · digital pro on genesis framework · wordpress · log in home about archives social media policies thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here!