skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer the wonder of tech making personal technology user-friendly for you! home about archives social media contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! you are here: home / archives for kindle kindle carolyn nicander mohr / november 29, 2018 how to use a kindle ereader to organize your kindle books into collections q. thank you for your helpful article about how to create kindle collections on a computer. could you also write a guide about to how to create collections on a kindle ereader? a. great suggestion, i certainly will. the article kindle collections – how to organize your kindle books easily using your computer continues to […] tweet share2 share pin11 email 13 shares carolyn nicander mohr / february 8, 2018 kindle in motion – ebooks beyond black & white when you think of kindle books, you may think of black text on a white background. but times are changing. amazon has introduced kindle in motion, books that are more than just words on a screen. kindle in motion books are ebooks in the kindle format that have an added element to them. these books […] tweet51 share6 share5 pin2 email 64 shares carolyn nicander mohr / august 17, 2017 lastreader – the first place for free ebooks, deals and more you know there are deals to be had on the internet, but where do you find them? do you just search for “deals” and hope for the best? where should you begin? if you’re looking for free ebooks and/or deals on shopping, travel, apps, software and more, one of the first places you should check […] tweet52 share7 share4 pin5 email 68 shares next page » primary sidebar carolyn nicander mohr subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: search the wonder of tech! search this website recent posts google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources 12 ways tech can help with social distancing how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center 3 ways to avoid social distance in the age of technology redbox launches free live tv, no subscription needed recent comments carolyn nicander mohr on google maps celebrates 15 years with new features! carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing popular posts chirp – a new place to get deals on audiobooks how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center google maps adds enhanced guidance for people with impaired vision (and everyone else) survey shows how wearables can improve lives [infographic] the many reasons why you may want apple carplay in your next (or current) car subscribe to the wonder of tech rss feed wonder of tech rss feed like the wonder of tech on facebook like the wonder of tech on facebook! triberr atomic tribe subscribe to the wonder of tech on feedly! subscribe on the kindle! the wonder of tech kindle subscription by subscribing to the wonder of tech on the kindle, you can have new articles automatically downloaded as soon as they're published! privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy categories categories select category android apps breaking news cameras cars cell phones cell phones cloud computers ebooks education ereaders featured fitness gaming devices internet ipad ipad iphone iphone mac movies music personal technology personal technology photography robots shopping social media tablets television triberr uncategorized wearables websites windows subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: footer subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: let’s connect! facebook flickr google+ linkedin pinterest rss twitter youtube home about archives social media policies privacy policy comment policy guest post policy review policy thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! tags 3d amazon android apple apps at&t cloud education email facebook fitness fun videos gaming gifts google gps handy tips hulu+ internet radio ipad iphone itunes kindle movies music netflix nintendo nook parenting photography pinterest poll roku sd cards security shopping slingbox tablets texts travel twitter verizon virgin mobile wearables youtube copyright © 2020 · digital pro on genesis framework · wordpress · log in home about archives social media policies thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here!