editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. news latest 37 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 38 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 41 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime ‘waste of time’: cnn host gets fed up with wh official’s non-answers during stormy interview (screenshot: cnn/snapstream) by cristina cabrera | march 26, 2020 3:58 p.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. cnn host brianna keilar’s interview with white house trade adviser peter navarro got heated on thursday when she attempted to prod him to explain how the trump administration was addressing the hospital ventilator shortages as the covid-19 outbreak escalates. “you’re wasting everyone’s time with this,” keilar said when navarro tried to invoke president donald trump’s talking point of blaming the obama administration for trump’s own blundering response to the coronavirus. “it’s 2020. the president was elected in 2016,” the cnn host continued. “can you get to a million ventilators?” navarro downplayed the number of ventilators needed and accused keilar of “frightening america with that kind of stuff.” “peter, if you think that speaking in facts and truth is frightening to people, you have a problem,” she replied, pointing to the society of critical care medicine’s estimate that medical professionals will require approximately 960,000 ventilators to treat coronavirus patients under critical condition. “why do you keep shouting in my ear? i don’t understand,” navarro complained. “well, because you’re not answering my question,” keilar shot back. the white house official then pontificated about how the nation needs to “band together and work with this in a unified way” while claiming that cnn was sensationalizing the coronavirus to “stir people up.” by that point, the cnn anchor had run out of patience: “peter, that is just a waste of time to say that.” “we’re out of time and that’s just ridiculous,” she said over navarro’s protests before ending the interview. watch the exchanges below: wh trade adviser peter navarro during a contentious interview with cnn host brianna keilar: “why do you keep shouting in my ear?” pic.twitter.com/lpkyatminu — tpm livewire (@tpmlivewire) march 26, 2020 cnn host brianna keilar says peter navarro’s comments about sensationalizing covid-19 are a “waste of time.” pic.twitter.com/vm5nuwxfot — tpm livewire (@tpmlivewire) march 26, 2020 cristina cabrera (@crismcabrera) is a newswriter at tpm based in new york. she previously worked for vocativ, usa today and ny1 news. have a tip? send it here! includes: brianna keilarcovid-19peter navarrotv clip more in news 37 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 38 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 41 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy