statista logo statista.com statista.es statista.de statista.fr prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics all industries consumer goods & fmcg internet media & advertising retail & trade sports & recreation technology & telecommunications transportation & logistics travel, tourism & hospitality most-viewed statistics recent statistics popular statistics facebook: number of monthly active users worldwide 2008-2019 smartphone market share worldwide by vendor 2009-2019 number of apps available in leading app stores 2019 opec oil price annually 1960-2020 big mac index - global prices for a big mac 2020 topics topic overview smartphones - statistics & facts social media - statistics & facts top study view study industry overview reports dossiers get a quick quantitative overview of a topic outlook reports trend forecasts in the statista market outlooks surveys market insights from an expert and consumer perspective toplists company rankings for sales and analysis market studies complete markets in evaluation industry reports all key figures for an industry global business cities reports global business city rankings and key figures on cities brand reports insights and benchmarks on brands worldwide country reports countries and their potential further studies get a deeper insight into your topic outlooks consumer market outlook everything you need to know about consumer goods digital market outlook identify market potentials of the digital future mobility market outlook key topics in mobility country outlook key economic and social indicators technology market outlook new insights on most important technology markets tools publication finder find studies from all around the internet company database new sales and employment figures at a glance business plan export data sets for your business plan infographics services the statistics portal directly accessible data for 170 industries from 50 countries and over 1 mio. facts. about statista first steps and help centre tools and tutorials explained in our media centre research & analysis customized research & analysis projects: market research & market data modelling quick analysis with our professional research service: askstatista content & information design content marketing & information design for your projects: customized infographic service presentation design animated videos whitepapers, e-books, etc. more information ecommercedb.com kpis for more than 20,000 online stores rankings by country rankings by category go to database global survey new prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics popular statistics topics markets reports outlooks consumer market digital market mobility market country outlook technology market tools publication finder company database business plan export infographics services content & information design research projects ask statista global consumer survey de es fr career at statista join our international team hamburg london new york paris singapore hamburg – international pure player surrounded by art deco some 500 employees (of more than 700 in total) from over 57 nations work at our headquarters located at the brahms kontor, a splendid art deco building with an extraordinary atmosphere. all key departments such as sales, r&a, content, it and corporate services are based there. the office space is located in hamburg’s beautiful city center directly opposite of the laeiszhalle concert hall and the planten un blomen park. numerous coffee shops and restaurants are located in the immediate neighborhood. many large and small shops can be found on mönckebergstraße, hamburg’s main shopping street, which is just a stone’s throw from brahms kontor. both subway and bus stops are located directly in front of the building. london office – an expanding start-up along the thames in 2015, the london office opened in the heart of the city's covent garden, which is only a short walk from the river thames. five years later, the london branch moved across the river to southwark in order to make room for an ever-growing team. a dedicated team with 30 employees attends to our uk customers including google, vodafone, and sky. the office premises boast a stunning industrial interior and are set in close proximity to a myriad of international street food markets and restaurants. the southwark subway station is a mere one-minute walk away, and several bus lines depart at a stop directly across from the office. new york – pioneering enterprise in the big apple with 100 employees, the new york office is statista’s largest branch abroad. the office space is located on the 30th floor, which offers our staff a magnificent view over southern manhattan and hudson river. at the pure sales and marketing branch, our employees look after customers such as adobe, google, microsoft and procter & gamble and work hard at establishing statista more and more as the no 1 provider of high-quality data in north america too. paris office – start-up in the heart of the city we've opened our newest branch office in paris. located between the ‘place de la concorde’ and the ‘opéra garnier’, the office is ideally located for our sales colleagues to visit our customers around the city. excellent connections to public transport, as well as numerous neighbourhood shops, cafes, and restaurants are among the amenities for this superb downtown location. singapore – statista goes east we opened our latest branch in marina bay, singapore, one of asia’s most thriving business districts. the office in singapore confirms statista’s ambition to gain a lasting foothold in asia and to continuously expand its business there. job offers behind the scenes meet the team statista university lifelong learning at statista we believe that you should never stop learning. this is why we offer trainings by professional teachers for all our employees. whether you want to become an excel pro or boost your knowledge in economics – the statista university will help you expand your capabilities in a wide variety of domains. broad course selection our curriculum at the statista university covers a wide range of topics – from business administration to communication strategy and time management. along with that, all our offerings emphasize theoretical background as well as hands-on techniques that can be applied in day-to-day business. introduction to leadership the statista leadership team is being prepared extensively for its management role. with the leadership program we provide the groundwork for successful teams and a healthy company culture that embodies inspiration, motivation and support. we are the world at statista we are proud of our international footprint with employees from over 55 different countries. the statista university acknowledges this fact with its program on intercultural communication, discussing the meaning of culture and its impact on business life. social media statista impressions statista by the numbers 1,000,000 users from 195 countries are working with statistics from our platform 137 editors in 12 editorial offices assure high quality content benefits what we offer our employees international team a challenging job with a dynamic international team. attractive locations attractive locations in the heart of new york, hamburg, london and paris. personal development great opportunities for personal growth and responsibility, as well as great career opportunities. professional development participation in (it) conferences, sales training, language courses, specialized training in market research and analysis. events many team building activities, corporate events or sports. food & beverages huge choice of drinks, sweets and fruit. apply now here statistically, it's time for a new job statista offers a product i am absolutely committed to. in addition, it is very rewarding to receive so much positive feedback from my customers, which is something that also creates a great working atmosphere in the sales department. marcel grenz, sales director fmcg, retail & e-commerce, hamburg the human resources department manages all aspects relating to our company’s more than 700 employees at a total of 13 sites around the world. statista does a lot for its employees – even far beyond the usual standards. claude mancini, senior hr manager teamwork is what defines statista research & analysis. both within and across our small teams we constantly inspire each other’s work, which lets us achieve the best possible outcome for our projects. julian lindhof, analyst i simply love this place. there is such a strong team spirit and sense of unity; we all support one another. juliana frimpong, student assistant, strategic market insights trust is the foundation of statista’s corporate culture. the freedom we enjoy gives you a true sense of responsibility and motivates you to work on your own initiative. ann-kathrin kohl, market researcher, strategic market insights what i like most about working at statista is the incredible speed at which we generate and implement new ideas. this motivates me greatly and makes it fun to come to work every day. niels terfehr, director research & analysis the different projects and deep insights into different industries never cease to surprise me. despite the impressive size to which statista has grown, i never get the feeling of being just “part of the crowd”. isabell küpper, senior graphic designer / presentation designer i love challenges. nowhere else can you make such a big difference in such a short time like at statista. the team spirit in particular makes me love going to work every day. anja weber, finance manager working at statista to me means working with people who have a sense of teamwork with a capital t. at over 700 employees strong, the company still provides a family atmosphere, and everybody is always ready to help. flat hierarchies furthermore enable me to be involved in important decisions and have my voice heard. marlon mau, web designer/developer statista truly is one big group of friends. even as a student worker, input is always valued and one is made to feel like part of the team. working as a full time researcher now, the change has been seamless and already i was given the chance to broaden my abilities by working in our london office for a couple of months. nane sönnichsen, junior researcher, content department uk from starting out in a basement with only 4 people, now at 30 and still growing - directly contributing to statista’s development in the uk makes me extremely proud. great team to work with, exciting office environment, i’m looking forward to the future success of the company. bilal chaudhry, business development manager, london statista offers a substantial amount of opportunity. starting here as a trainee, statista has given me not only the tools and knowledge to successfully grow and develop in my career, but has also enabled me to travel the world. allison mitchell, key account manager, new york statista for me is a place where i can enjoy collaborating with colleagues from international backgrounds who constantly support me and inspire me to realize new ideas in the daily work. yijia xu, junior researcher, content department asia apply now contact - europe statista gmbh recruitment team hamburg/london/paris johannes-brahms-platz 1 20355 hamburg germany jobs@statista.com contact - united states statista inc. recruitment team new york 55 broad street; 30th floor new york, ny 10004 united states jobs.us@statista.com we use cookies to personalize contents and ads, offer social media features, and analyze access to our website. in your browser settings you can configure or disable this, respectively, and can delete any already placed cookies. for details, please see your browser’s help section (by pressing f1). please see our privacy statement for details about how we use data.ok home about statista career contact help & faq report bug our media partners privacy imprint menu prices & access popular statistics industries infographics content & design projects research projects askstatista statista.de statista.es statista.fr