statista logo order now and get full access to all statistics. starting from $708 per year! statista logo prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics all industries consumer goods & fmcg internet media & advertising retail & trade sports & recreation technology & telecommunications transportation & logistics travel, tourism & hospitality most-viewed statistics recent statistics popular statistics facebook: number of monthly active users worldwide 2008-2019 smartphone market share worldwide by vendor 2009-2019 number of apps available in leading app stores 2019 opec oil price annually 1960-2020 big mac index - global prices for a big mac 2020 topics topic overview smartphones - statistics & facts social media - statistics & facts top study view study industry overview reports dossiers get a quick quantitative overview of a topic outlook reports trend forecasts in the statista market outlooks surveys market insights from an expert and consumer perspective toplists company rankings for sales and analysis market studies complete markets in evaluation industry reports all key figures for an industry global business cities reports global business city rankings and key figures on cities brand reports insights and benchmarks on brands worldwide country reports countries and their potential further studies get a deeper insight into your topic outlooks consumer market outlook everything you need to know about consumer goods digital market outlook identify market potentials of the digital future mobility market outlook key topics in mobility country outlook key economic and social indicators technology market outlook new insights on most important technology markets tools publication finder find studies from all around the internet company database new sales and employment figures at a glance business plan export data sets for your business plan infographics services the statistics portal directly accessible data for 170 industries from 50 countries and over 1 mio. facts. about statista first steps and help centre tools and tutorials explained in our media centre research & analysis customized research & analysis projects: market research & market data modelling quick analysis with our professional research service: askstatista content & information design content marketing & information design for your projects: customized infographic service presentation design animated videos whitepapers, e-books, etc. more information ecommercedb.com kpis for more than 20,000 online stores rankings by country rankings by category go to database global survey new global no.1 business data platform insights and facts across 600 industries and 50+ countries statista search popular topics coronavirus social media e-commerce smartphone china food industry cosmetics gaming film industry united states prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics popular statistics topics markets reports outlooks consumer market digital market mobility market country outlook technology market tools publication finder company database business plan export infographics services content & information design research projects ask statista global consumer survey de es fr trusted by more than 23,000 companies trusted by more than 23,000 companies trending statistics get facts and insights on topics that matter mar 23, 2020 | media usage consuming media at home due to the coronavirus worldwide 2020, by country a global survey conducted in march 2020 revealed that the coronavirus has had a direct impact on in-home media consumption around the world, with 35 percent of total respondents professing to have read more books or listened to more audiobooks at home and 18 percent having listened to more radio due to the covid-19 pandemic, whilst more than 40 percent of consumers spent longer on messaging services and social media. interestingly, although at least 50 percent of respondents in most countries said that they were watching more news coverage, figures for australia and the united states were lower, amounting to just 42 and 43 percent respectively. australians were also the least likely to be reading more newspapers; just five percent of consumers said that they were doing so compared to the global total of 14 percent. whilst 60 percent of italians were spending longer on messaging services, in japan the same was true for only eight percent of respondents, and survey participants from china and the philippines were by far the most likely to be spending more time on music streaming services. for further information about the coronavirus (covid-19) pandemic, please visit our dedicated fact and figures page. read more mar 24, 2020 | diseases total number of coronavirus cases in iran from february 19 to march 25, 2020 as of march 25, 2020, there were 27,017 confirmed cases of coronavirus (covid-19) in iran. the first confirmed case was reported in qom on february 19, 2020. according to the country's official government website (irna) the number of coronavirus related deaths was 2,077 as of march 25, 2020. covid-19: iran's situation in comparison to the world iran is among the countries most affected by the coronavirus worldwide, with 5,098 confirmed cases in tehran alone as of march 22, 2020. the death rate of covid-19, or the number of known deaths divided by the number of confirmed cases, in iran was over 7.79 percent making it the second highest death rate worldwide after italy. however, it is important to note that the death rate is not the same as the mortality rate (which reflects the number of deaths based on an at-risk population). covid-19: background information covid-19 is a novel coronavirus that had not previously been identified in humans. the first case was detected in the hubei province of china at the end of december 2019. thousands of new cases are being reported around the world each day, and because the illness has only recently been detected, it is not known exactly how the virus is spreading from person to person. however, the outbreak of the sars coronavirus, which began in 2002, is thought to have spread via cough and sneeze droplets. for further information about the coronavirus pandemic, please visit our dedicated facts and figures page. read more mar 26, 2020 | diseases age distribution of canadian covid-19 cases as of march 25, 2020 as of march 25, 2020, around 16 percent of covid-19 cases in canada had occurred among adults between the ages of 30 to 69 years. only 4 percent of covid-19 cases in canada were among those 19 years of age and younger. this statistic shows the distribution of coronavirus (covid-19) cases in canada as of march 25, 2020, by age group. read more mar 27, 2020 | diseases number of coronavirus (covid-19) cases in europe 2020, by country as of march 22, 2020, there were 150,462 confirmed cases of coronavirus (covid-19) across the whole of europe since the first confirmed cases in france on january 25. italy has been the worst affected country in europe with 53,578 confirmed cases, followed by spain with 24,926 cases. germany and france have over 21 thousand and 14 thousand cases respectively. across the whole of europe, the coronavirus has so far been responsible for 7,425 confirmed deaths, with 4,827 of the deaths occurring in italy. for further information about the coronavirus pandemic, please visit our dedicated facts and figures page. read more mar 26, 2020 | financial markets covid-19: effects on m&a transactions in the dach region 2020 according to data provided by the institute for mergers, acquisitions and alliances (imaa) in a survey of private equity investors and professionals in the dach region, 43 percent of respondents agreed to some degree that they would postpone all acquisitions to see how the covid-19 situation develops. on the other hand, 37 percent disagreed that they would be postponing acquisitions. read more mar 25, 2020 | economy number of new claimants for universal credit in the uk 2019-2020 in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the number of people applying for universal credit in the united kingdom surged to 477 thousand in the nine days prior to march 25, 2020, compared with just under 62 thousand in the week leading up to january 9, 2020. universal credit is the united kingdom's social security benefit given to people out of work or on low incomes. read more popular topics starting point of your research amazon apple facebook google netflix nike starbucks tesla walmart agriculture automotive pharmaceuticals tourism wellness advertising e-commerce video games virtual reality employment gdp health population poverty terrorism forecasts european union germany india united kingdom market outlooks analyze markets across 150+ countries consumer marketsdigital marketsmobility markets we provide current market figures and forecasts for the most important consumer goods within a total of more than 200 markets. all key figures are internationally comparable and are based on extensive analyses of data from national and international statistical offices, associations, company reports and the trade press. explore the tool watch the tutorial we provide the numbers behind markets related to catchwords like smart home, fintech or connected car. it presents up-to-date figures on more than 90 markets of the digital economy. the comparable key figures are based on extensive analyses of relevant indicators from the areas of society, economy, and technology. explore the tool watch the tutorial we present the key figures from the world of automotive and mobility – sales, revenues, prices, and brands. explore the tool watch the tutorial statista accounts our complete solutions basic account get to know us access to basic statistics download as pdf & png free premium account your perfect start with statista full access to all statistics stand-alone license $59 / month* corporate account our company solution all functions of the premium account access to all dossiers, forecasts, studies starting at $700 / month* *all products require an annual contract. prices do not include sales tax. go to product overview daily infographics global stories vividly visualized global consumer survey 2020 reveal how consumers think the global consumer survey helps marketers, planners and product managers to understand consumer behavior and their interaction with brands. explore consumption and media usage on a global basis. 700,000+consumers 55countries 50+industries 6,500+brands explore the tool watch the tutorial our service save time & money with statista our sources trusted content all of our statistics provide detailed information on the data source. statista works closely with more than 22,500 trusted partners. our sources our team industry expertise over 300 researchers and specialists gather and double-check every statistic we publish. experts provide country and industry-based forecasts. our team our accounts flatrate access with our solutions you find data that matters within minutes – ready to go in your favorite format. our accounts contact get in touch with us. we are happy to help. usasiaeulatam esther shaulova operations manager– contact (united states) emailsupport@statista.com tel+1 212 419-5770 mon - fri, 9am - 6pm (est) ziyan zhang customer relations– contact (asia) emailasia.support@statista.com tel+91 80 490164-28 mon - fri, 11:30am - 10pm (ist) lodovica biagi director of operations– contact (europe) emaileu.support@statista.com tel+44 (0)20 8189 7000 mon - fri, 9:30am - 5pm (gmt) catalina rodriguez key account manager - latam– contact (latin america) emailsupport@statista.com tel+1 212 419-8277 mon - fri, 9am - 6pm (est) we use cookies to personalize contents and ads, offer social media features, and analyze access to our website. in your browser settings you can configure or disable this, respectively, and can delete any already placed cookies. for details, please see your browser’s help section (by pressing f1). please see our privacy statement for details about how we use data.ok company about statista contact help & faq career lsp digital first steps platform first steps statistics database topic overview our sources advertising on statista (pdf) products industries & categories studies & reports research & analysis content & information design advertising on statista (pdf) privacy legal privacy imprint report bug press & news media / library press & news our media partners become data partner api for media encyclopedia databases www.statista.de www.statista.es www.statista.fr ecommercedb.com sitemap follow us on social media or subscribe to our newsletter for more business insights. menu prices & access popular statistics industries infographics content & design projects research projects askstatista statista.de statista.es statista.fr