statista logo statista.com statista.es statista.de statista.fr prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics all industries consumer goods & fmcg internet media & advertising retail & trade sports & recreation technology & telecommunications transportation & logistics travel, tourism & hospitality most-viewed statistics recent statistics popular statistics facebook: number of monthly active users worldwide 2008-2019 smartphone market share worldwide by vendor 2009-2019 number of apps available in leading app stores 2019 opec oil price annually 1960-2020 big mac index - global prices for a big mac 2020 topics topic overview smartphones - statistics & facts social media - statistics & facts top study view study industry overview reports dossiers get a quick quantitative overview of a topic outlook reports trend forecasts in the statista market outlooks surveys market insights from an expert and consumer perspective toplists company rankings for sales and analysis market studies complete markets in evaluation industry reports all key figures for an industry global business cities reports global business city rankings and key figures on cities brand reports insights and benchmarks on brands worldwide country reports countries and their potential further studies get a deeper insight into your topic outlooks consumer market outlook everything you need to know about consumer goods digital market outlook identify market potentials of the digital future mobility market outlook key topics in mobility country outlook key economic and social indicators technology market outlook new insights on most important technology markets tools publication finder find studies from all around the internet company database new sales and employment figures at a glance business plan export data sets for your business plan infographics services the statistics portal directly accessible data for 170 industries from 50 countries and over 1 mio. facts. about statista first steps and help centre tools and tutorials explained in our media centre research & analysis customized research & analysis projects: market research & market data modelling quick analysis with our professional research service: askstatista content & information design content marketing & information design for your projects: customized infographic service presentation design animated videos whitepapers, e-books, etc. more information ecommercedb.com kpis for more than 20,000 online stores rankings by country rankings by category go to database global survey new prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics popular statistics topics markets reports outlooks consumer market digital market mobility market country outlook technology market tools publication finder company database business plan export infographics services content & information design research projects ask statista global consumer survey de es fr help & faq frequently asked questions well informed about statista - from your account to your research. account data features statista search citation and integration as a private user, may i purchase a paid account? unfortunately, this option is not available for private users. paid accounts are available exclusively for business customers. during the purchase process, users must confirm that the purchase is for business purposes. please note that the terms and conditions for business customers vary from those for private users. how can i access fee-based statistics? with a paid account, you have convenient access to fee-based premium statistics. more information on paid accounts may be found under the menu link prices & access as well as detailed information on the features of each product on the bottom of the page. how can i access statista at college? at many universities, statista access is provided for students throughout the entire campus. if your campus does not have access, please contact your university library or provide your information through a campus request with statista. we will then inform your library of your interest. why is "campus license" integrated into the top left of the website for me? your university has enabled statista services for the entire campus. this allows full access to all statistics and furthermore all studies and reports within the statista study database, if accessed over the university network. more information on the statista campus license can be found under the page universities, libraries & education. how long are the account subscriptions valid? both the premium and corporate account have a duration period of 12 months. failure to terminate the subscriptions for these accounts will result in an automatic extension of services beyond the initial 12 month time period. for additional information, please refer to the link prices & access. my account is no longer working. what happened? we reserve the right to delete accounts that have not been used for a long time. please sign up to create a new account. how should i formulate my password? passwords are more secure when they are long (at least 8 characters) and “unreadable”. an indication of optimal password design can be found on the microsoft website. please bear in mind that you afford yourself a higher degree of protection when you do not use the same password for different services across the network. an important information for our users with a registration prio to 2014: with the introduction of statista’s new platform in december 2013, we have improved our internal password encryption. in order to ensure that your new password is secure, you will be prompted to enter a new password for statista if you registered before that date. how can i delete my account? in order to delete your free account, please access ‘advanced settings’ in your account details and then click on ‘deactivate account’. you can find detailed information here. are the published surveys and polls fully representative? for details on the origin and quality of a statistic, please reference the information box located directly underneath the statistic. this box includes all available information on the data provided by the source. more information about the sources of statistics which sources does the information come from? the data is gathered from over 22,500 sources, including studies, scientific journals, official communications, trade reports, books, and other relevant statistical publications. you can find ‘source’ and ‘more information’ in the information boxes next to a specific statistic. more information about the sources of statistics when was the data collected? you can find information about the release/publication date and the period in which the data was collected in the ‘source‘ and ‘more information’ boxes next to the statistic. does the data change over time? for most topics, only the latest statistics are published. if you are searching for statistics on a particular time period, you may sort the results by clicking "date of publication" in the "sort by" filter located directly underneath the search field. you may also filter using the options on the lower left of the search results. the most recent statistics will be presented first, as well as information on the content and age groups of the data (for example, pennsylvania, ages 18-24). additional information may be found in the "more information" box next to the statistic. how do you proceed with the publication of data by third parties? we proceed like other comparable editorial or scientific publications, e.g. specialist magazines, compendia, or encyclopedias. all data are researched, assessed, selected, and processed. in contrast to other traditional publication types, however, there is no textual description. instead, only the data themselves are quoted, and detailed information on the source of the data is provided. in the case of online sources, the source of the data is usually not only indicated but can also be accessed directly via a link. as with other editorial offers, some of the researched content is available for free and some can only be accessed by paying users. if you have any questions with regard to data publication, please contact datenpartner@statista.com. are studies evaluated first? yes, for all studies, the information is first evaluated before publication. why is it noted for some questions/surveys that “analysis has been conducted by the department of marketing and media management of the university of hamburg” ? not all studies are currently available with evaluated and analyzed results. the results of some surveys must first be calculated based on primary data – for example, oversampling, which may cause some surveyed groups to be disproportionately represented. therefore, some calculations and analysis are conducted in cooperation with the department of marketing and media management of the university of hamburg. this cooperation ensures the quality of information according to widely accepted and recognized scientific standards. where can i find detailed information about the data? below each statistic, you can find information as to who has published the above data, who was surveyed in the process of collecting the data and what the respective group of respondents was questioned about (e.g. aged 18 or over, germany). you can use the buttons "description", "source" and "more info" to show or hide detailed information on a particular statistic. more information about our sources. why can't i find download options for a particular statistic? the statista platform allows content to be downloaded in image format (jpg), powerpoint format or excel format (premium account or corporate account required). our download service is updated regularly. in the box "download" on the right side of the statistic, you may view all available download options. regular updates are made to our download service. for recently added statistics, not all download options may be available until the files are uploaded. statistic download formats can i find statistics on specific target groups? our statistics on specific target groups are available via the search function by selecting ‘topics’ or ‘studies & reports’ on the left side of the search results. if you require the detailed research and evaluation of a specific target group, our research & analysis service can provide customized, in-depth solutions and information. we will provide you with all relevant information on a target group, as well as analysis, if possible. tips for better search results can i contribute to surveys through this website? similar to other editorial or scientific publications (e.g. magazines, encyclopedias, compendiums), our data is first researched, evaluated, and then prepared for release; however, unlike other traditional forms of publication, we do not provide a textual description. instead, we reproduce the data graphically. the original source of the data is provided, as well as a direct link in the case of online sources. how can i subscribe to the statista newsletter? when logged in you may sign up for the statista newsletter, which provides users with current information on relevant markets and the statista platform. the newsletter is distributed via email and is published in varying time intervals. you may cancel your subscription to the newsletter by logging in to your profile and selecting newsletter from the menu. in order to better optimize our services, we note which links are most often visited by users, an action agreed upon during the subscription for our newsletter. this information remains confidential and is not provided to third-party sources. you have the right to request the blocking or deletion of this data; however, for a full and complete deletion, the cancellation of your statista account may be necessary. how can i contact statista? the easiest way to contact us is through our website. we carefully consider all requests and suggestions; however, please take into consideration that detailed information is not always available. how can i report errors or bugs? the integrity of data provided by statista is assured through a dual control process; however, if you still would like to report a mistake or error, you may contact us through our comment form. why is it necessary to allow cookies for statista? cookies are small files that are stored on your computer when you visit a website. cookies also help us to ensure, for instance, that you can freely switch between the pages on statista while remaining logged in. in addition, we can offer you service functions such as the recommendation of relevant content. cookies are not a security risk for you. they are not able to independently perform operations on your computer. if your browser is not set to allow cookies, it is not possible to register or log in on statista. it is therefore necessary to set your browser to accept cookies. you can find instructions on how to do this in your browser’s help section. how can i find statistics on specific topics? enter the desired keyword directly into the search field (for example, "marketing"). the search will present all results for this term. on the left hand side you can filter for topics by clicking on topics. more tips for better search results. why are multiple statistics for the same topic shown? the resulting statistics are gathered from multiple sources, and as a result, many similar statistics on the same topic will be presented. how can i find a specific statistic? you can find a specific statistic by using the search function. simply enter a keyword into the search box, and all statistics matching this keyword will be listed. if you enter two keywords, only the statistics containing both terms will be shown. more tips for better search results how can i narrow my search further? you may narrow your search by using the filter functions on the left of side of the search results. examples of applicable filters may include the date of publication, region as well as the category of a statistic. for more information please have a look at the chapter working with statista. does statista help to research data? please understand that we cannot offer free assistance in researching or locating data, given the high volume of requests. if you would like further research or information, we recommend consulting our research & analysis service. please note: we do not offer advice for students working or dealing with spss software. such consulting would lead to the empirical evaluation of student work. more information on our r&a service. may i cite statistics? yes, our statistics may be cited or quoted. if you would like to cite a particular statistic, please use the url for this statistic. how can i link statistics? you can link any statistic by simply copying and pasting the website url, regardless of the view or format. the linked website will appear exactly as you are currently viewing it. may i use statista charts and graphs on the internet? yes, we allow the use of the diagrams and charts of free basic statistics, as per our terms of use. if you use a basic statistic on your website, we kindly ask you to link to the original statistic on our platform. please note that we offer a special service called "chart of the day", with attractive charts created specifically for news blogs and websites. several blogs already use this service, for example, our partners mashable and venture beat. how should statistics be cited, generally? it is easiest to quote or cite us directly on the internet by referencing the link to a specific statistic. additional information on citation for scientific or educational purposes is explained in the following faq. please note: we are not the source of the surveys or statistics, rather, the aggregator and collector of information provided by outside sources. in publications, references should always be made to the original source of the information. our new citation feature for scientific customers makes referencing very easy. we offer four of the most common citation styles: apa, chicago, harvard and mla. can i integrate statistics into my blog or website? yes, statista allows the easy integration of many basic statistics on other websites. simply copy the html code that can be found under the "share" button for the relevant statistic in order to integrate it. our standard is 660 pixels, but you can customize how the statistic is displayed to suit your site by setting the width and the display size. please note that the code must be integrated into the html code (not only the text) for wordpress pages and other cms sites. first steps tips and tricks - use statista to its full potential what is statista? get an overview in under two minutes play now getting started with statista benefit from all the resources of our platform find out now media center all tutorials, all tools - statista explained with videos view now contact get in touch with us. we are happy to help. usasiaeulatam esther shaulova operations manager– contact (united states) emailsupport@statista.com tel+1 212 419-5770 mon - fri, 9am - 6pm (est) ziyan zhang customer relations– contact (asia) emailasia.support@statista.com tel+91 80 490164-28 mon - fri, 11:30am - 10pm (ist) lodovica biagi director of operations– contact (europe) emaileu.support@statista.com tel+44 (0)20 8189 7000 mon - fri, 9:30am - 5pm (gmt) catalina rodriguez key account manager - latam– contact (latin america) emailsupport@statista.com tel+1 212 419-8277 mon - fri, 9am - 6pm (est) we use cookies to personalize contents and ads, offer social media features, and analyze access to our website. in your browser settings you can configure or disable this, respectively, and can delete any already placed cookies. for details, please see your browser’s help section (by pressing f1). please see our privacy statement for details about how we use data.ok home about statista career contact help & faq report bug our media partners privacy imprint menu prices & access popular statistics industries infographics content & design projects research projects askstatista statista.de statista.es statista.fr