shops top 5 shops treatwell albelli greetz hp about you show all shops categorieën campagnes top 15 gezonde lifestyle blogs 2019 top20 gardening blogs 2019 most creative diy blogs favourite vegan blogs of 2019 top20 most inspirational blogs 2019 populaire mode & beauty blogs beste ouders blogs 2019 most creative art & craft blogs european food blogs award mooiste eten fotoblogs european parenting blogs award 25 most famous beer blogs of 2020 top photography blogs 2020 beste food bloggers influencers in 2020 top cycling blogs 2020 inspirerende nederlandse bloggers & influencers top 25 european interior design blogs of 2019 top tuin blogs top 30 nederlandse food bloggers 2019 top 20 nederlandse lifestyle bloggers van 2019 top 20 nature’s blog 2019 top 20 hr blogs 2019 top 20 retro gaming blogs 2019 best health and fitness blogs of 2019 top 20 cancer blogs beste nederlandse voedsel blogs award 2019 top 20 mama bloggers top 40 food blogs top 20 rv blogs vegan blogs award 2018 beauty blogs award 2018 top 30 cycling blogs 2018 up-and-coming mom blogs lgbt blogs award 2018 top 20 best wellness centres in amsterdam 20 beste voetbalfan sites top 20 best yoga centres in amsterdam diy blogs award 2018 fotografie blogs award 2018 fitness blogs award 2018 technology blogs award 2018 reis blogs award 2018 top 65 car blogs top 100 up and coming mummy blogs food blogs award 2018 top 15 tech blogs 2017 top 20 beste voetbalfan sites 2017 top 50 training dog blogs 2017 top 20 mama blogs 2017 top 50 wedding blogs 25 great global food blogs 2017 top 50 drone blogs vegan blogs award 2017 expat blogs award 2017 wandelblog award 2017 digital nomad blogs award 2017 fotografie blog awards 2017 interieur & design blog awards 2017 diy blog award 2017 lgbt blogger awards 2017 health and fitness blog award 2017 treatwell’s beauty blog award 2017 mrkortingcode’s reisblog awards 2017 mrkortingscode’s food blog awards 2017 check out our campaigns european parenting blogs award the results are in! visitors have voted and the decision has been made! view the winners these are the top bloggers of 2018: see the winners below. you can also check out amazing discounts and promos for great savings: this award has ended! see the winners below…. visit one of our popular discounts currently active to save money treatwell discount code is the most popular. we also have albelli, hp and otto discount code and winners are... 35% john dadbloguk.com being a dad can be the most wonderful experience possible, but once you actually give dadbloguk.com a visit, you will find that it can be even more fun than you could have possibly anticipated. this is because the site has plenty of potential to really bring the concept of fatherhood to the next level. to understand this, you can go ahead and take a look at “guilty pleasures i have as a parent,” “an accidental photography tutorial using light painting techniques,” and “be inspired: get outside with your loved ones.” these will show you what fatherhood can really be about. see badge see certificate 26% jo slummysinglemummy.com jo is a freelance writer and mother of two. she originally created the blog, slummy single mummy, in 2009 to promote her work. since then, the site has evolved into an award-winning parenting blog. jo writes about a variety of topics, from relationships to traveling to personal finance, and even her musings on random things like car fresheners. with her unique and hilarious voice, jo’s blog will definitely keep you entertained for hours on end. see badge see certificate 15% tom diaryofthedad.co.uk tom is a proud dad of three and the writer of diary of the dad, a blog that he launched in order to keep track of his family life. his blog contains posts about his adventures with his three kids, musings about parenthood, and stories about the things that his kids get up to as they go through each stage in their development. see badge see certificate 7% charlotte welshmummyblogs.com a beautiful blog that contains some of the most insightful contents about parenting you could ask for, welshmummyblogs.com is one resource that you don’t want to miss out on. there is much that you can learn from this website about parenting and the joys of having children. you can get new perspectives on those matters that mean something to you, so be sure to check this site out and give it the attention that it deserves. contents like “a guide to protecting children’s privacy online” really help drive the point of how great this website is home. read up. see badge see certificate 3% the mad house muminthemadhouse.com jen of mum in the mad house is the mother of two wonderful boys. she is passionate about raising passionate and creative children with skills that will last them a lifetime. her blog covers a wide range of topics from realistic parenting tips and advice, to arts and craft, to recipes for scrumptious dishes. she encourages her readers to pursue a creative family life that is full of joy and love. see badge see certificate 2% hayley sparklesandstretchmarks.com hayley is the voice behind sparkles and stretchmarks. she began her blog two months before she was due to give birth to her first child. initially, she was just searching for a way to reach out to other mothers-to-be. eventually, the blog turned into a place where she can document her family life - from the beautiful and picture-perfect moments to the frustrations and challenges. see badge see certificate 2% toby and roo tobyandroo.com toby and roo is the brainchild of harriet, mother to two wonderful little boys and an amazing daughter. her blog documents her parenthood journey and covers an extensive range of topics, from food, fashion and beauty, to travel. harriet works as an international children’s merchandise retailer, which means that readers can always count on her recommendations when it comes to children’s products. see badge see certificate 2% sarah boorooandtiggertoo.com boo roo and tigger too is a family lifestyle blog that showcases the daily joys and trials of family life. sarah, the writer behind the blog, is a former hospital administrator who also has extensive experience in other industries including finance, catering, it, and others. she blogs about her experiences as a mother and also occasionally branches out into other topics including home decor, fashion, finance, and health and fitness. see badge see certificate 2% talya motherhoodtherealdeal.com talya of motherhood: the real deal is a former editor-in-chief who turned to blogging as she was transitioning into motherhood. she started her blog as a way to get the conversation going on the challenges that mothers experience throughout their journey. her writing is bold, authentic, direct, and funny. talya keeps her readers captivated and entertained with her unbridled humor about parenting and motherhood. see badge see certificate 2% cerys rainydaymum.co.uk cerys of rainy day mum started her blog after trying out doing arts and crafts with her child as a way to spend quality time together. rainy day mum was a place where she can share with her readers her ideas for getting creative and exploring hands-on activities that parents can do together with their children. cerys hopes to serve as an inspiration to other parents and to encourage them to work on their own family goals. see badge see certificate 2% channel mum channelmum.com channel mum is a community of mothers that offers friendship, fun, and support for all things family. it is the uk’s fastest growing parenting platform which provides reliable information from the top parenting experts in the country as well as some of the leading family bloggers and influencers. the site aims to let all mothers know that whatever it is that they are going through, they are not alone and that there are countless people who are ready to help them. see badge see certificate 2% bex ialwaysbelievedinfutures.com bex is a mother of two based in hertfordshire, uk. her blog contains posts that discuss a wide variety of topics, from parenting tips and updates about her two children to their family’s travel adventures and recommendations. she also writes about lifestyle-related content such as shopping hauls, the books on her reading list, and stories about her day-to-day life. see badge see certificate 0% katie mummydaddyandmemakesthree.co.uk katie is the energetic mother of two young girls and a little boy. she started the blog, mummy daddy and me makes three, to have something creative to do while she was on maternity leave with her eldest daughter. seven years later, the blog has turned into a visual diary of her journey as a parent as well as a record of the ordinary and extraordinary moments (and everything else in between) of her family life. see badge see certificate 0% ali wemadethislife.com ali is a work-at-home mom to two girls and one boy. she works as a freelance writer, and started blogging because she wanted a space where she can document her family memories and inspire others to create beautiful and happy lives for themselves. she believes that life may not be perfect, but it is always important to overcome the hard times to get to the good times. see badge see certificate 0% the mamma fairy themammafairy.com be sure to visit themammafairy.com for some truly inspiring contents about parenting so that you can take care of your little ones in the most fitting manner possible. you can be sure that you will find good things in this site to help you improve in the areas where you may feel you are lacking. be sure to take a look at excellent examples such as “first up on our 2019 wish list – alvor portugal,” “stem toys for birthdays and christmas,” and “golden circle diy drive with lagoon car rental.” you will likely find that this site offers more too. see badge see certificate about mrkortingscode.nl about mrkortingscode.nl mrkortingscode.nl is a popular coupon website that is active in 9 countries. our goal is to help you save money on online shopping by collecting the best deals and coupons for all your favourite webshops in one place. with our coupons you can usually save between 5%-25% – sometimes even more! since mrkortingscode.nl has become a success within the last year, we have decided to give something back. our blogger awards give us the opportunity to reward some of our favourite bloggers who have inspired us by sharing their knowledge on a wide range of topics. we have decided to set the awards up as a voting contest, which enable our visitors to participate actively in the voting process. facebook contact us are you a blogger and would you like to participate in our awards? or would you like to nominate a blog for our awards? then contact us on bloggerawards@mrkortingscode.nl or on facebook. you can nominate a blog even if it doesn’t match the theme of this awards. we will consider all blogs for our future blogger awards! mrkortingscode.nl home onze missie hoe werkt het? veelgestelde vragen shops categorieën over ons beeldmateriaal in het nieuws adverteren contact onderzoek belangrijk om te weten algemene voorwaarden disclaimer privacy cookies zorgverzekeringvergelijken2020.nl amazon vouchercode b.v. oudebrugsteeg 9 unit 2.59 1012 jn amsterdam kvk: 58114513 btw: nl852880479b01 copyright © 2020 mrkortingscode.nl